Al - Zaman : American forces killed Shaikh Abdullah al - Ani , the preacher at the mosque in the town of Qaim , near the Syrian border . [ This killing of a respected cleric will be causing us trouble for years to come . ] DPA : Iraqi authorities announced that they had busted up 3 terrorist cells operating in Baghdad . Two of them were being run by 2 officials of the Ministry of the Interior ! The MoI in Iraq is equivalent to the US FBI , so this would be like having J. Edgar Hoover unwittingly employ at a high level members of the Weathermen bombers back in the 1960s . The third was being run by the head of an investment firm . You wonder if he was manipulating the market with his bombing targets . The cells were operating in the Ghazaliyah and al - Jihad districts of the capital . Although the announcement was probably made to show progress in identifying and breaking up terror cells , I do n't find the news that the Baathists continue to penetrate the Iraqi government very hopeful . It reminds me too much of the ARVN officers who were secretly working for the other side in Vietnam . Al - Zaman : Guerrillas killed a member of the Kurdistan Democratic Party after kidnapping him in Mosul . The police commander of Ninevah Province announced that bombings had declined 80 percent in Mosul , whereas there had been a big jump in the number of kidnappings . On Wednesday guerrillas had kidnapped a cosmetic surgeon and his wife while they were on their way home . In Suwayrah , Kut Province , two car bombs were discovered before they could be detonated . ( Kut is in southeastern Iraq and has an overwhelmingly Shiite population , who are on the lookout for Baathist saboteurs and willingly turn them in . This willingness is the main difference in the number of bombings in the south as opposed to the center - north of the country . ) In Baghdad Kadhim Talal Husain , assistant dean at the School of Education at Mustansiriyah University , was assassinated with his driver in the Salikh district . Guerrillas killed an engineer , Asi Ali , from Tikrit . They also killed Shaikh Hamid 'Akkab , a clan elder of a branch of the Dulaim tribe in Tikrit . His mother was also killed in the attack . Two other Dulaim leaders have been killed in the past week and a half . Guerrillas near Hawijah launched an attack that left 6 dead , including 4 Iraqi soldiers . One of them was from the Jubur tribe and was deputy commander of the Hawijah garrison . Two hundred members of the Batawi clan of the Dulaim demonstrated in Baghdad on Friday , protesting the killing of their clan elder , Shaikh Kadhim Sarhid and 4 of his sons , by gunmen wearing Iraqi army uniforms . ( This is a largely Sunni Arab clan , and some Sunni observers have accused Shiite elements in the government of being behind the assassination ; it is more likely the work of Sunni Arab guerrillas punishing the Batawi leaders for cooperating with the Dec. 15 elections . ) Al - Zaman : The Iraqi High Electoral Commission on Friday denied a request of the Debaathification Commission to exclude 51 individuals from running on party lists in the Dec. 15 elections on grounds of having been sufficiently involved in Baath activities to warrant their being excluded from civil office . The Commission said it had no legal grounds for such an exclusion . This item is a small one and easily missed . But in my view it is highly significant . The Debaathification Commission had been pushed by Ahmad Chalabi and his Iraqi National Congress very hard , and had pushed many Sunni Arabs into the arms of the guerrillas . Chalabi has been increasingly marginalized within Iraq , however , despite his ties of clientelage with Washington and Tehran . He is no longer in the dominant Shiite list , the United Iraqi Alliance , and wo n't have many seats in the new parliament . Some 2,000 junior officers of the old Baath army have been recalled to duty in recent months , something Chalabi would have blocked if he could have . Now the Electoral Commission is refusing to punish people for mere past Baath Party membership . The situation in Iraq is only going to get better this way . If someone committed a crime against humanity , prosecute the person . If he or she did not , then they should have all the same rights as other Iraqis . Al - Sharq al - Awsat reports that a key eyewitness in the trial of Saddam Hussein for a 1982 massacre at Dujail has died . A team from the court managed to take his deposition before he died . The trial begins again Nov. 28 . In Baghdad the fighting still continues in several areas , mostly in Sadr city and Adhamiya . Baghdadis do n't venture much out of their neighbourhoods any more , you never know where you might get stuck . There has been talk that the night curfew might be implemented again . My neighbourhood has been surrounded by American troops for three days now , helicopters have been circling over our heads non-stop . Fedayeen are now visible on the street and they have become bolder than ever . Yesterday there were tens of them putting road blocks on our street and setting up mortars , they only come out in the open when Americans leave the area , then they start firing mortars indiscriminately and shooting their AK - 47's in the air . They are setting the road blocks at the exact same positions they were during the war last year , which indicates they are the same people . And there is nothing we can do about it really , people who are suggesting that we go out and fight them are living in dream land . Even the IP and ICDC have abandoned the neighbourhood , and those are trained and armed , so do n't expect scared civilians to do anything except to hide inside and pray a helicopter or a tank does n't bomb them , and also how are American soldiers going to distinguish the brave and valiant civilians from the Fedayeen ? Everyone is apprehensive , there is some talk that April 9th and 10th are going to be bloody days . Most people have n't gone to work the last few days , although it seems that the rest of Baghdad is ' normal ' ( if you can define what normal is ) . There are rumours about preparations by slum dwellers for another looting spree against banks , governmental and public property similar to the one that took place last April , and I have already overheard youngsters in my neighbourhood joking about it and saying things like " This time we will be the first to loot , we did n't get anything the last time " . Mosques are calling for donating blood , food , and medicine for Fallujah , and several convoys have already headed out for Fallujah , most of them returned later though . What irritates me is this sudden false ' solidarity ' between Sunni and Shi'ite clerics , we all know that they would be glad to get at each other s throats when they have the chance , and Shia clerics were describing Fallujan insurgents as ' Ba'athists ' , ' Saddamites ' , ' Wahhabis ' , and ' terrorists ' just a few days ago . So what happened ? I guess it 's just the old new Arab ' Me against my brother , me and my brother against my cousin , me and my cousin against my enemy ' , or ' The enemy of my enemy is my friend ' thing going on again . Speaking of Fallujah , we have only Al - Jazeera to rely on for our news from there . They have sent over their top reporter Ahmed Mansour to the town , and he is spouting all kinds of propaganda hourly reminding me of Al - Sahhaf . " They are targetting ambulances " , " American snipers are shooting children and pregnant women " , and " They are using cluster bombs against civilians " is all you get to hear from him . He did once make an unforgivable error when he mentioned that Fallujan militants were shooting at the Marines from the roofs of mosques and houses in Hay Al - Golan , but of course that is okay for Al - Jazeera . Someone who called himself Abu Hafs from the Ibn Al - Khattab Brigades ( another new group ) was on Al - Jazeera describing the enormous casualties among the Marines and he sweared that American soldiers were mutilating the bodies of dead insurgents . Over 300 Iraqis are reported dead and 500 reported wounded in Fallujah alone . Al - Iraqiyah tv said that ICDC were controlling Ramadi . Azzaman newspaper mentioned an announcement signed by Abdul Aziz bin Muqrin , an Al - Qaeda operative in Saudi Arabia on an Islamic website ' the voice of Jihad ' , in which he stated that " although mutilating dead bodies is not originally permitted in Islam , but in this case it is allowed if Muslims use it against infidels to deter them from committing criminal actions " . He added that " America does not understand anything except the language of force and retaliation , they were kicked out of Somalia in humiliation after that soldier was dragged in Mogadishu for the whole world to see " , and that " the day will come when the dead bodies of Americans and Jews would be dragged , defiled , and stepped on in the Arabian peninsula together with their agents and supporters " . Elena 's motorcycle tour through the region around Chernobyl has revived interest in one of the most serious nuclear disasters in history . We all know what happened , but even to this day , there are many different versions and opinions on how it happened and what effect Chernobyl will have on the health of people affected by the fallout . UPDATE : Now you can tour Chernobyl and write your own story . This is not a post about fault - finding or assigning blame . It is a time to learn what happened and how it may affect the future . There was a soothing authoritative UNSCEAR ( United Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation ) report in 2000 on the health effects of Chernobyl confirming that there was no scientific evidence of any significant radiation - related health effects to most people exposed . This was heavily promoted by the Australasian Radiation Protection Society in a press release titled THE MYTHS OF CHERNOBYL which contained the following : One of the most widespread myths of recent times is that the Chernobyl nuclear reactor accident in 1986 caused many thousands of extra cancer deaths in neighbouring regions , and that public health has been severely affected by exposure to radiation . Many people still believe that to be true , even though the Ministry of Russian Federation on Civil Defence , Emergencies and Elimination of Conseguences of Natural Disasters ( EMERCOM of Russia ) reported this in 1996 : CHERNOBYL ACCIDENT : TEN YEARS ON In the last decade , there has been a real and significant increase in childhood and , to a certain extent , adult carcinoma of the thyroid in contaminated regions of the former Soviet Union ( Wi940 ) which should be attributed to the Chernobyl accident until proven otherwise . The prestigious IAEA ( International Atomic Energy Agency ) published an early report on Chernobyl which was based on information from Russian sources and stated that there was no significant health effects . However , in April 2001 , the IAEA published Fifteen Years after the Chernobyl Accident - Lessons learned . which contradict the earlier reports . Here are some excerpts : The dramatic increase in radiation - induced thyroid cancers in children and adolescents in Belarus , Russia , and Ukraine , which have been observed since 1991 , continues to this day . ... a drop in the birth rate , a deterioration in women 's reproductive health , an increase in complications during pregnancy and birth , and a deterioration in neonatal health .... The dynamics of change in the state of health of children affected by the Chernobyl accident in all three countries - Belarus , Russia , and Ukraine - in the post-accident period is characterized by persistent negative tendencies : the morbidity rate is going up , the number of really healthy children is dropping , and disability is increasing . As a parent , I can well imagine how painful it must be for those families whose children are succumbing to radiation poisoning . There is a lot to learn about Chernobyl . Being well - informed will give you certainty and that is desirable in a world of conflicting reports . There are a wealth of references on Chernobyl . Read some of the following links and draw your own conclusions . These links present the many viewpoints that existed and still exist about the disaster called Chernobyl : IAEA Report Lessons learned http://www.ibiblio.org/expo/soviet.exhibit/chernobyl.html http://www.ibrae.ac.ru/IBRAE/eng/chernobyl/nat_rep/nat_repe.htm#24 http://www.nsrl.ttu.edu/chernobyl/wildlifepreserve.htm http://www.environmentalchemistry.com/yogi/hazmat/articles/chernobyl1.html http://digon_va.tripod.com/Chernobyl.htm http://www.oneworld.org/index_oc/issue196/byckau.html http://www.collectinghistory.net/chernobyl/ http://www.ukrainianweb.com/chernobyl_ukraine.htm http://www.bullatomsci.org/issues/1993/s93/s93Marples.html http://www.calguard.ca.gov/ia/Chernobyl-15%20years.htm http://www.infoukes.com/history/chornobyl/gregorovich/index.html http://www.un.org/ha/chernobyl/ http://www.tecsoc.org/pubs/history/2002/apr26.htm http://www.chernobyl.org.uk/page2.htm http://www.time.com/time/daily/chernobyl/860901.accident.html http://www.infoukes.com/history/chornobyl/elg/ http://www.world-nuclear.org/info/chernobyl/inf07.htm http://www.nea.fr/html/rp/chernobyl/conclusions5.html http://www.nea.fr/html/rp/chernobyl/c01.html http://www.nea.fr/html/rp/chernobyl/c05.html http://www.physics.isu.edu/radinf/chern.htm http://www.chernobyl.info/en http://www.arps.org.au/Chernobyl.htm http://www-formal.stanford.edu/jmc/progress/chernobyl.html http://www.21stcenturysciencetech.com/articles/chernobyl.html I would be interested in hearing what conclusions you reached and what you found that was most convincing . radiation : As a child in the 50's I had a lot of glandular problems and they treated it with radiation therapy ( primitive at best ! ) and stopped when a lesion on my neck started enlarging -- they said it was not CA but stopped the treatments .... Remember the old shoe sizing machines that was a form of radiation xray ? That too was stopped . Do n't have to mention what radiation has done and is still doing to Hirsohima & Nagaski folks -- there can be no doubts about the effects of radiation in Chernobyl ....... The Chernobyl Children 's Project ( http://www.adiccp.org/home/default.asp ) offers several ways to help the children of that region . One of them is the Rest and Recuperation Program , wherein a child can come to the US for a few weeks in the summer . Even a little time spent receiving wholesome , uncontaminated food , good medical care , etc. can add years to their lives . S. and I have an acquaintance who has hosted several of these children for many years ; to see these little ones breaks the heart . The urge to protect and gather them all in is almost overwhelming , and makes me more grateful for the blessings I have . Take care , my friend , Linda I 'm sorry to say Elena 's story has been revealed to be a fake . What do the new al - Qaeda videotape and audio speeches of Bin Laden and Ayman al - Zawahiri tell us about the hopes of the remaining top leadership of the organization ? Because the US and Pakistan have managed to capture or kill about 2 / 3s of the top 25 al - Qaeda commanders , the middle managers are not in close contact with al - Zawahiri and Bin Laden . The tape was a way to signal priorities . These are 1 ) Assassinate or overthrow Gen. Pervez Musharraf , the Pakistani military " president " who had made a coup in 1999 and has thrown in his lot with the United States against the Taliban and al - Qaeda . Musharraf has been trying to purge his officer corps of the substantial number of al - Qaeda sympathizers . His military intelligence has captured major figures like Abu Zubayda and Khalid Shaykh Muhammad , as well as nearly 500 other al - Qaeda operatives , over 400 of whom the Pakistanis have turned over to the US . Musharraf held elections in October of 2002 , in which center - right parties did well , but in which nearly 20 percent of parliament seats went to the fundamentalist religious party coalition , MMA . MMA also captured the Northwest Frontier Province , which probably shelters Bin Laden and al - Zawahiri , and is in a joint government of Baluchistan Province , also on the Afghanistan border . If al - Qaeda can kill Musharraf or instigate a military coup against him by Islamist junior officers , they can hope to catapult the MMA to power as political allies and hosts . They would thereby gain control of a major base for terrorist operations , which is also a nuclear power . All this is highly unlikely , as with most al - Qaeda crackpot schemes . But so was it unlikely that a small group of Arab mujahidin would virtually take over Afghanistan . Response : The US must do whatever it can to strengthen the legitimacy of the Pakistani government . On the one hand , it should pressure Musharraf to take off his uniform and run for president in a fair election , and to repeal the contentious " Legal Framework Order " that essentially perpetuates his dictatorship . On the other , restrictions should be lifted on the mainstream Muslim League - N and Pakistan People 's Party , who can defeat the MMA in fair elections if not hogtied by the secret police . On the other hand , the US should strong - arm India and Pakistan into a final settlement of the Kashmir issue . Al - Zawahiri attempted to use Musharraf 's lack of progress in helping the Muslims of that Indian state as a justification for his overthrow . The Kashmir issue generates far more terrorism , and even the threat of nuclear war , than Iraq ever did . 2 ) Target Israel and encourage the worst elements of the Palestinians by playing on the iron fist policies of the Sharon government . Response : The US has succeeded in politically isolating Hamas , and started the process of cutting off its funding . This terrorist organization can now only pull off far less sophisticated bombings and attacks . It should continue to be defanged . But Sharon 's iron fist is simply not working as a means of establishing general peace , and the Bush administration will have to finally apply effective pressure on Sharon to stop his outrages in and colonization of the West Bank and Gaza . Sharon 's hard line has worked in tandem with Hamas 's terrorism to ratchet up tensions further and further , which spill over into the Muslim world and serve as a recruiting tool for al - Qaeda in its search for agents willing to hit the United States . Israel owes the United States at least this much , in this crisis , to cease militarily unnecessary provocations and establish genuine peace . 3 ) Make Iraq another Afghanistan , using the Republican Right 's own tactics against them . Response : Iraq is actually hostile territory for al - Qaeda , and without Iraqi sympathizers it can not succeed there . By moving quickly to Iraqi sovereignty and improvement of Iraqi lives , the US may be able to get Iraqis on its side , so that they turn in the foreigners . Certainly , the Shiites already hate al - Qaeda and would help ; likewise the Kurds . The problem of mollifying the Sunnis , though , has to be solved to avoid giving al - Qaeda an entrée . The Americans have to put away their free - market fetishism for a while and find ways of creating jobs and pumping money into Iraqi households . We need an FDR in Iraq , not a Ronald Reagan . Of course , the sooner the US soldiers can be withdrawn in favor of less - provocative local or international forces , the better . Getting the Spanish out of Iraq is n't nearly as good a rallying cry for al - Qaeda in the Arab world as getting the Americans and British out . The thing to keep in mind is that Sunni Arab nationalists and Baathists and local Sunni radicals are likely to remain far more dangerous to the US in Iraq than al - Qaeda infiltrators , and it would be dangerous to take one 's eyes off the former ball . George W. Bush alleged Thursday that John Edwards lacks the experience necessary to be president . The problem with this argument is that Bush lacked the experience necessary to be president when he ran in 2000 , so this sort of cheap shot just hoists him by his own petard . Let 's just remember a seminal Bush moment in 1999 : ' Bush fails reporter 's pop quiz on international leaders November 5 , 1999 Web posted at : 3:29 p.m. EST ( 2029 GMT ) WASHINGTON ( CNN ) -- Texas Gov. George W. Bush is enduring sharp criticism for being unable to name the leaders of four current world hot spots , but President Bill Clinton says Bush " should , and probably will , pick up " those names . The front - runner for the 2000 Republican presidential nomination faltered Thursday in an international affairs pop quiz posed by Andy Hiller , a political reporter for WHDH - TV in Boston . Bush Hiller asked Bush to name the leaders of Chechnya , Taiwan , India and Pakistan . Bush was only able to give a partial response to the query on the leader of Taiwan , referring to Taiwanese President Lee Teng - hui simply as " Lee . " He could not name the others . " Can you name the general who is in charge of Pakistan ? " Hiller asked , inquiring about Gen. Pervaiz Musharraf , who seized control of the country October 12 . " Wait , wait , is this 50 questions ? " asked Bush . Hiller replied : " No , it 's four questions of four leaders in four hot spots . " . . . Bush , in answering the question about the leader of Pakistan , also said : " The new Pakistani general , he 's just been elected -- not elected , this guy took over office . It appears this guy is going to bring stability to the country and I think that 's good news for the subcontinent . " Gore released a statement Friday taking Bush to task for his comments on Pakistan 's recent coup . " I find it troubling that a candidate for president in our country -- the world 's oldest democracy -- would characterize the military takeover as " good news , " Gore said . " Further , I find it even more disturbing that he made these comments about a nation that just last year tested nuclear weapons -- shortly after voicing his public opposition to the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty . A spokesman for President Clinton also criticized Bush 's comments . " It is very dangerous for this country to condone the overthrow of democratically elected governments , " said David Leavy , spokesman for the National Security Council . Not only did Bush not know who General Pervez Musharraf was , he seems to have confused coup - making with " taking office , " and moreover went on to suggest that the overthrow of an elected prime minister and the installation in power of the Pakistan military , then the world 's strongest supporter of the Taliban , would bring " stability ! " Musharraf made his coup in part because of the military 's anger over Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif 's willingness to back down from confronting India over Kashmir , so that he explicitly came to power as a warmonger . I ca n't tell you how ominous I found Bush 's performance in that interview . I still remember him stuttering about " the General , " unable to remember Musharraf 's name . He obviously had no idea what he was talking about , though he demonstrated a number of ill - fated instincts . He obviously liked authoritarian rule better than democracy , equating dictatorship with " stability . " And , he did n't think he needed to know anything about South Asia , with its nuclear giants and radical religious politics -- the latter a dire security threat to the US . He could n't tell when things were becoming more unstable as opposed to less . Musharraf went on to play nuclear brinkmanship with India in 2002 , risking war twice that year . Although Musharraf did turn against the Taliban after September 11 , under extreme duress from the US , elements of his military continued to support radical Islamism and have recently been implicated in assassination attempts on Musharraf himself . This was the body that Bush proclaimed was bringing " stability " to the region in fall of 1999 . So , one answer to Bush 's charge about Edwards is that if it had any merit , Bush should have declined to run himself . Another answer is that Edwards certainly knows far more about foreign affairs now than Bush did then . Indeed , given how Bush has rampaged around the world alienating allies and ignoring vital conflicts with the potential to blow back on the US , one might well argue that Edwards knows more now than Bush does . This is what Edwards ' campaign literature said about his positions : " Edwards believes that the U.S. must be an active leader to help resolve conflicts , from reducing tensions between India and Pakistan to the peace process in Northern Ireland . Edwards is a strong supporter of Israel , and believes that the U.S. has a vital role in promoting peace between the Israelis and the Palestinians . " I do n't see Bush doing any of this . From Friday 's Daily Star By Juan Cole Friday , June 04 , 2004 As the American public gradually wearies of the Iraq crisis , some have begun worrying that the war could blow back on the US by creating the conditions for anti-American terrorism . Israel , however , is much closer to Iraq and is likely to suffer from Iraqi instability much more acutely than will the United States . Ironically , among the strongest proponents of war in Iraq were Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and his neoconservative supporters in the US . Have they , however , actually weakened Israeli security ? The biggest threat Israel faces is not from conventional armies but from the asymmetrical tactics of Palestinian national liberation movements . The derailing of the Oslo peace process by the hard - line policies of Sharon and the Palestinian intifada has encouraged suicide bombings . This , in turn , has discouraged international investment in Israel and has made it less likely that immigrants to the country will actually remain there . Although Israel withdrew from Lebanese territory in May 2000 , the radical Lebanese Shiite party , Hizbullah , has not been mollified . It is estimated to have some 5,000 armed fighters , and they have pursued attacks against Israeli forces to compel them to withdraw from the Shebaa Farms , a sliver of Syrian territory that Israel annexed after the 1967 war . Any thorough assessment of the impact of the Iraq war and its aftermath on Israel 's security environment must , therefore , closely examine its likely effect on the conduct of asymmetrical warfare . Although it is often alleged ( without much evidence ) that Saddam Hussein gave money to the families of Palestinian suicide bombers and so encouraged asymmetrical warfare , it is not clear that he actually posed a danger to Israel . The Palestinians who have been willing to kill themselves to end the Israeli occupation of the Gaza Strip and the West Bank were not driven by economic considerations . Saddam never did anything practical to help the Palestinians . At some points , as in the late 1980s , he reportedly made behind - the - scenes overtures to the Israelis to arrive at some sort of a deal . He did not allow Palestinian radicals to launch operations against Israel from Iraq . By the late 1990s , Iraq had no nuclear or biological weapons program , and had destroyed its chemical weapons stockpiles . Its ramshackle army had virtually collapsed before the American invasion in 2003 . If it is hard to see how Baathist Iraq posed any real threat to Israel , it is not so difficult to see a menace in the current instability . The bungling of post-war Iraq by the Bush administration created a weak and failed state . Armed militias , many staffed by former Iraqi military men with substantial training and experience , have proliferated . The US chose to ally itself with such groups as the Supreme Council for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq , whose 15,000 - strong Badr Corps paramilitary was trained by the Iranian Revolutionary Guards . Anti-Israeli and pro-Palestinian feeling is strong among several major Iraqi ideological groups and currents . The more radical Shiites , who generally follow the theocratic notions of Iran 's Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini , routinely chant and demonstrate against Israel . They vehemently protested the Israeli assassination of Sheikh Ahmed Yassin , the leader of Hamas , last March . Worse for Israel , the assassination drew a denunciation even from the moderate and cautious Grand Ayatollah Ali Sistani , who wields enormous moral authority over Iraqi Shiites . These Shiite movements had been suppressed by Saddam Hussein 's regime , but have now organized and armed themselves . They have also reestablished their historical links with Lebanese and Iranian Shiites . It is inevitable that most Iraqi Shiites will side with their Hizbullah coreligionists against Israel , and it seems likely that Iraqi Shiites will get rich enough from Iraqi petroleum sales in the future that they will be in a good position to bankroll Lebanese Shiite radicals . Sunni Arab fundamentalists deeply sympathize with the Palestinians and with Hamas , and those in Iraq have deep historical inks with fundamentalists in Jordan and Palestine . Iraqi cities such as Fallujah and Ramadi were on the truck route from Amman to Baghdad , and so came under the influence of the Salafi movement , which is popular in Jordan . Secular Arab nationalist groups also universally sympathize with the Palestinians , and those in post-Saddam Iraq are no exception . Whereas Saddam Hussein 's dictatorship ensured that such populist currents were kept firmly under control , they are now free to organize . An Iraq in which armed fundamentalist and nationalist militias proliferate is inevitably a security worry for Israel . If even a modicum of normality and security can be returned to Iraq , its citizens will be able to benefit from the country 's petroleum reserves . That private wealth can easily be funneled into aid for the Palestinians and for Lebanese Shiites . Israel 's security interests are best served by peace with its neighbors , which can only be achieved by trading land for peace with the Palestinians . Ariel Sharon 's aggressive near annexation of almost half of the occupied West Bank and his indefinite postponement of any Palestinian state have created unprecedented rage and violence . The anger has spread throughout the Muslim world , including Iraq . The promotion by the pro-Zionist right of twin occupations - in the West Bank and in Iraq - has profoundly weakened , not strengthened , Israeli security . Juan Cole ( www.juancole.com ) is a professor of modern Middle East history at the University of Michigan and author of " Sacred Space and Holy War " ( I.B. Tauris , 2002 ) . THE DAILY STAR publishes this commentary in agreement with Agence Global Tamils feel that the proposed defense agreement between India and Sri Lanka would encourage Sinhala rulers to prepare for another war abandoning the current peace process But there are strong hints in the country that a new Indo - Sri Lanka defense deal could be in the making . And this has already drawn protests from the Tamil National Alliance ( TNA ) which was backed by the LTTE in the April general elections held in Sri Lanka . Apart from the 1,200 Indian lives lost in 1987 , the Indian peacekeeping force was immensely unpopular not only in Tamil Nadu and the Jaffna peninsula but also among the Sinhalese majority who considered it a violation of their country 's sovereignty . India defensive over Sri Lanka By Ranjit Devraj NEW DELHI - While India is ready to enter into a " defense cooperation agreement " with Sri Lanka , it is wary of being drawn into any military involvement in the island nation 's two decades - old civil war that has seen violent strife between ethnic Tamils and the Sinhalese majority - leaving over 60,000 dead on both sides . And that explains the delay in the signing of a formal defense agreement that was at the heart of Sri Lankan President Chandrika Kumaratunga 's four - day visit to India recently . According to Professor S D Muni , South Asia expert at the Jawaharal Nehru University , the two - year peace talks between Colombo and the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam ( LTTE ) are stalemated . For that reason , he said , Kumaratunga 's government was keen to beef up military preparedness with Indian support . " The Sri Lankan government does not want to initiate a conflict but would be interested in deterring the LTTE from starting one . And the Tigers look as if they are on the brink of launching another offensive , " Muni told IPS . Colombo held six rounds of talks with the Tigers between September 2002 and March 2003 . But last April , the rebels abruptly pulled out of negotiations demanding recognition , first , for the right to self - rule before proceeding any further . Kumaratunga 's India tour preceded a three - day visit to Sri Lanka by Norwegian Foreign Minister Jan Petersen in a new bid to revive the peace talks that were supposed to follow a ceasefire that Oslo successfully brokered in February 2002 . Petersen held discussions with both Kumaratunga and the reclusive LTTE leader Velupillai Prabhakaran in the rebel stronghold of Kilinochchi without success , and chief Tamil rebel negotiator Anton Balasingham and Norwegian envoy Erik Solheim held closed - door talks at the international airport late Saturday in an effort to keep the salvage effort on track , diplomatic sources said . But they , too , failed . Colombo , too , seems to be in an intractable position . According to former Indian army general A S Kalkat , the difficulty for Kumaratunga 's government lay in the fact that the LTTE had become a de jure power in the north and east of the island and was running every aspect of civil administration in the areas within its control . A veteran of India 's military intervention in the Jaffna peninsula to help implement the 1987 Indo - Sri Lanka Peace Accord - which ambitiously provided for the disarming of the formidable LTTE - Kalkat said the new defense deal would essentially be a reiteration of the older one minus its military commitment . Kalkat , who currently chairs the independent US - based International Council on Conflict Resolution , said despite the failure of the Indian army to disarm or even subdue the Tigers , India remained the only power capable of influencing the course of the current peace talks . " The Norwegians mean well but their role is limited to that of honest broker and the LTTE is keenly aware that they do not have the power [ unlike India ] to underwrite any arrangement , " Kalkat told IPS in an interview . In 1987 , the Tamil Tigers reluctantly accepted the peace accord under Indian pressure . Under the accord , a new northeastern provincial council was formed and the Indian army was deployed as peacekeepers in the north and east . However , differences between India and LTTE soon surfaced and led to clashes between Tiger guerrillas and the Indian peace keeping force . About 1,200 Indian soldiers were killed during this phase of the conflict . India had to pull back its forces from Sri Lanka in 1989 following the election of Ranasinghe Premadasa , a strong critic of Indian mediation . Last June , an international initiative led by Japan to persuade the LTTE to come back to the negotiating table failed despite an aid package offer of US$ 4.5 billion . Japan 's special envoy , Yasushi Akashi , who called for tangible progress in the peace process before the money would be released , came back from visits to Colombo and Kilinochchi in early November a frustrated man . He complained about the " visible lack of progress " and reaching an impasse in talks with both sides . The Tigers ' chief ideologue , Balasingham , sniffed at the proposal saying that " a solution to the ethnic conflict can not be predetermined by the resolutions or declarations of donor conferences , but has to be negotiated by the parties in conflict without the constraints of external forces . " But there are strong hints in the country that a new Indo - Sri Lanka defense deal could be in the making . And this has already drawn protests from the Tamil National Alliance ( TNA ) which was backed by the LTTE in the April general elections held in Sri Lanka . " Tamils feel that the proposed defense agreement between India and Sri Lanka would encourage Sinhala rulers to prepare for another war abandoning the current peace process , " TNA member of parliament P Sithamparanathan was quoted as saying in a statement . She added that recent visits to the island by India 's top military brass including army chief General Nirmal Chander Vij have " caused apprehension among Tamils that preparations are under way for another war in the island " . But Kalkat pointed out that India would be ill - advised to be involved again , militarily , with Sri Lanka if only because it still had to consider the sentiments of 45 million ethnic Tamils in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu - separated from Sri Lanka 's Jaffna peninsula by the narrow Palk Straits . Apart from the 1,200 Indian lives lost in 1987 , the Indian peacekeeping force was immensely unpopular not only in Tamil Nadu and the Jaffna peninsula but also among the Sinhalese majority who considered it a violation of their country 's sovereignty . The best option , now , under the present difficult circumstances is for Colombo to do its own dirty work , although New Delhi can always be counted on to render good neighborly help because of the shared belief that religion , ethnicity and language can not be the basis for secession . In any case , Kalkat puts it succinctly : " There can not be a military option to what is a political situation . " Asia Times Online 16/11/2004 Unreported by the international media , the Valley of Kashmir has seen an ethnic and cultural genocide that has resulted in the fleeing from the valley of almost all the Hindu families who have been living there since human habitation was first recorded . Over nine dozen temples that had served the Hindu population have been destroyed , with some used as building material and others used as urinals . Thus far , none of the many " human rights " busybodies across the world have bothered to even notice such a development . Musharraf calls the bluff M.D. Nalapat While most U.S. secretaries of state -- save perhaps Dean Rusk -- have gobbled up credit for outcomes that they had little to do with , few have been as brazen as Colin Powell . Two years ago , Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf was surprised when the leader of the main Islamist alliance -- Maulana Fazlur Rahman -- visited India and issued a series of highly conciliatory statements . As Pakistan 's president had been telling the United States he was " forced " into taking a hawkish line on India precisely by the likes of Rahman , this was an embarrassment . The reality is that India is no longer the enemy of choice for the people of Pakistan . That distinction has now gone to the United States . Realists , and this even includes members of the U.S. Democratic foreign policy establishment such as Strobe Talbott , who have long sought to divest India of its defensive capability against another nuclear power in Asia , understand the only feasible solution for Kashmir is the acceptance of the status quo . India keeps what it has while Pakistan and China ( which was gifted a slice of the territory three decades ago ) do likewise . Simultaneously , New Delhi would ensure a degree of autonomy for the state that would help cut popular support off from jihadis attempting to convert Kashmir into a second Afghanistan . Bill Clinton understood this at the end of his term in office yet , under Colin Powell ( who appears to have an affinity for generals active in politics ) , the pendulum of U.S. policy has once again swung toward a quixotic effort to prize at least the Valley of Kashmir loose from India . This , Pakistan 's lobbyist in Washington Christina Rocca has been told , is the " minimum " that the Pakistan army will accept . It is also far more than what any administration in New Delhi can deliver . This writer has for years regarded the best solution to the Kashmir problem as being the trifurcation of the Indian part of the state into a Hindu - majority Jammu , a Buddhist - dominated Ladakh and the overwhelmingly Muslim Kashmir Valley , with the third state given little of taxpayers ' money but substantial autonomy . With luck , the Kashmir Valley can attract investment from the Middle East and other locations where Muslims are dominant and become a tourist , education and services haven within India . The overwhelming majority of Muslims in Kashmir would be happy with such an outcome , except for the tiny jihadi segment patronized by the U.S. State Department and the Pakistan Army , which would like to even the score with India for their catastrophic defeat in Bangladesh in 1971 . Unreported by the international media , the Valley of Kashmir has seen an ethnic and cultural genocide that has resulted in the fleeing from the valley of almost all the Hindu families who have been living there since human habitation was first recorded . Over nine dozen temples that had served the Hindu population have been destroyed , with some used as building material and others used as urinals . Thus far , none of the many " human rights " busybodies across the world have bothered to even notice such a development . Indeed , their reports are filled with tales of the " atrocities " of Indian troops on the innocent jihadis . Despite Sept. 11 , the United States still supports the Kashmir groups that back jihad as part of the price Washington is paying to keep Pervez Musharraf happy . Unfortunately for them , the general has decided to take seriously Colin Powell 's frequent boasts that it was on his nudging that the Indians made conciliatory gestures toward Islamabad . The U.S. State Department and the misnamed think tanks that follow its lead have held numerous conferences on Kashmir and , in most of them , the solution that has emerged is a valley prized loose from Indian control and under its own version of Ibrahim Rugova . That India is not Yugoslavia and that the " foreigner - led " Indian National Congress can least afford to ignore Indian nationalism , has not struck the conferees , among whom have been several Indian " scholars " and " analysts " ready to say and endorse anything for the sake of a free trip to New York or Vienna . Despite many wrinkles , India remains a part - democracy and merely signing on to a piece of paper that calls for an independent Kashmir does not get you into the trouble that writing an op - ed piece against Sonia Gandhi or Atal Behari Vajpayee would instantly . It was the business community in India that stepped in after Vajpayee indulged in an empty bout of saber rattling in 2002 , pointing out that the only beneficiary of the mythical perception that war -- especially nuclear war -- was around the corner in the subcontinent was China . The reason for this is that India is emerging as an alternative investment destination to China , hence the favor that the generals in Islamabad do to their trusty supplier of nukes and missiles by creating a scare about war involving India when in fact the real flashpoints are the Taiwan Straits and North Korea . Since then , India has talked peace while always signaling that only the status quo would be acceptable as a final settlement : a line of action that is followed in the case of disputes with China as well . Unfortunately for those eager to indefinitely carry on with the lucrative business of conflict resolution in South Asia , Pervez Musharraf has now called Colin Powell 's bluff , challenging him to deliver on his frequent statements implying that the Indians jump to his commands . Once the Manmohan Singh government shows that it has little appetite for suicide , Musharraf will face the moment of truth : accept the inevitable , or once again ramp up the insurgency and spawn a fresh lot of killers that can hit not merely Mumbai and New Delhi but London and Chicago as well . The one country that has shown that it understands the realities in South Asia is China . Under President Hu Jintao , Beijing has opened out to New Delhi and Prime Minister Wen Jiabao is expected to visit early next year , making friends by formally accepting Sikkim as part of India and backing India as a permanent member of the U.N. Security Council -- thus leaving Washington as the only one of the " permanent five " that has not yet done so . With Colin Powell around , the U.S. has no need of an Osama bin Laden M.D. Nalapat , an expert on jihad , is professor of geopolitics at the Manipal Academy of Higher Education , India . Washington Times 28/10/2004 Ok . We all know that John Kerry served in Vietnam . Four whole months , after which he took advantage of a little - known , little - invoked regulation that allowed him to desert his " band of brothers " . We also know how Dan Rather libeled George Bush and impugned his service in the Texas Air National Guard on a " 60 Minutes II " report based largely on forged documents . During his time in the Guard , George Bush flew the F - 102 Delta Dagger fighter - interceptor . The F - 102 saw service in the Vietnam theater between March 1962 and December 1969 . During this time , F - 102 squadrons were based out of Tan Son Nhut , Da Nang and Bien Hoa in Vietnam , and Udorn and Don Muang in Thailand . ( Click here for source . ) As far as George Bush knew , he and his unit could have been transferred to Vietnam . In all this so - called controversy , has anyone considered that perhaps George Bush just wanted to fly jets ? And , let 's remember , flying supersonic fighter jets is dangerous ! They do n't let just anybody do it . Some reporters ( you know , the ones with journalistic ethics ) have actually uncovered the truth about George Bush 's service in the Texas Air National Guard . For example , did you know that George Bush spent considerably more time in uniform than John Kerry ? What follows is the text of an e-mail sent to me by a friend of mine ( thanks to Dave Manzano ) . Read on to learn the facts . --------- Bush ’s National Guard years Before you fall for Dems ’ spin , here are the facts What do you really know about George W. Bush ’s time in the Air National Guard ? That he did n’t show up for duty in Alabama ? That he missed a physical ? That his daddy got him in ? News coverage of the president ’s years in the Guard has tended to focus on one brief portion of that time — to the exclusion of virtually everything else . So just for the record , here , in full , is what Bush did : The future president joined the Guard in May 1968 . Almost immediately , he began an extended period of training . Six weeks of basic training . Fifty - three weeks of flight training . Twenty - one weeks of fighter - interceptor training . That was 80 weeks to begin with , and there were other training periods thrown in as well . It was full - time work . By the time it was over , Bush had served nearly two years . Not two years of weekends . Two years . After training , Bush kept flying , racking up hundreds of hours in F - 102 jets . As he did , he accumulated points toward his National Guard service requirements . At the time , guardsmen were required to accumulate a minimum of 50 points to meet their yearly obligation . According to records released earlier this year , Bush earned 253 points in his first year , May 1968 to May 1969 ( since he joined in May 1968 , his service thereafter was measured on a May - to - May basis ) . Bush earned 340 points in 1969 - 1970 . [ In other words , Bush earned enough points to satisfy the requirements for his entire six year hitch in 1969 - 1970 alone . - acd ] He earned 137 points in 1970 - 1971 . And he earned 112 points in 1971 - 1972 . The numbers indicate that in his first four years , Bush not only showed up , he showed up a lot . Did you know that ? That brings the story to May 1972 — the time that has been the focus of so many news reports — when Bush “ deserted ” ( according to anti-Bush filmmaker Michael Moore ) or went “ AWOL ” ( according to Terry McAuliffe , chairman of the Democratic National Committee ) . Bush asked for permission to go to Alabama to work on a Senate campaign . His superior officers said OK . Requests like that were n’t unusual , says retired Col. William Campenni , who flew with Bush in 1970 and 1971 . “ In 1972 , there was an enormous glut of pilots , ” Campenni says . “ The Vietnam War was winding down , and the Air Force was putting pilots in desk jobs . In ’72 or ’73 , if you were a pilot , active or Guard , and you had an obligation and wanted to get out , no problem . In fact , you were helping them solve their problem . ” So Bush stopped flying . From May 1972 to May 1973 , he earned just 56 points — not much , but enough to meet his requirement . Then , in 1973 , as Bush made plans to leave the Guard and go to Harvard Business School , he again started showing up frequently . In June and July of 1973 , he accumulated 56 points , enough to meet the minimum requirement for the 1973 - 1974 year . Then , at his request , he was given permission to go . Bush received an honorable discharge after serving five years , four months and five days of his original six - year commitment . By that time , however , he had accumulated enough points in each year to cover six years of service . During his service , Bush received high marks as a pilot . A 1970 evaluation said Bush “ clearly stands out as a top notch fighter interceptor pilot ” and was “ a natural leader whom his contemporaries look to for leadership . ” A 1971 evaluation called Bush “ an exceptionally fine young officer and pilot ” who “ continually flies intercept missions with the unit to increase his proficiency even further . ” And a 1972 evaluation called Bush “ an exceptional fighter interceptor pilot and officer . ” Now , it is only natural that news reports questioning Bush ’s service — in The Boston Globe and The New York Times , on CBS and in other outlets — would come out now . Democrats are spitting mad over attacks on John Kerry ’s record by the group Swift Boat Veterans for Truth . And , as it is with Kerry , it ’s reasonable to look at a candidate ’s entire record , including his military service — or lack of it . Voters are perfectly able to decide whether it ’s important or not in November . The Kerry camp blames Bush for the Swift boat veterans ’ attack , but anyone who has spent much time talking to the Swifties gets the sense that they are doing it entirely for their own reasons . And it should be noted in passing that Kerry has personally questioned Bush ’s service , while Bush has not personally questioned Kerry ’s . In April — before the Swift boat veterans had said a word — Kerry said Bush “ has yet to explain to America whether or not , and tell the truth , about whether he showed up for duty . ” Earlier , Kerry said , “ Just because you get an honorable discharge does not , in fact , answer that question . ” Now , after the Swift boat episode , the spotlight has returned to Bush . That ’s fine . We should know as much as we can . And perhaps someday Kerry will release more of his military records as well . Byron York is a White House correspondent for National Review . His column appears in The Hill each week . One week to elections day and the general atmosphere in the capital is eerie , yet strikingly familiar . I suspect the streets of Baghdad will look as if a war is looming this week . There is no doubt that many Iraqis regard the date of 30 January as a day of renewed hope , one they have been awaiting all their lives , but at the same time , many others are already dreading it . The interim government has promised security measures that would reduce the violence on the day of elections , but I fail to see how they will be able to protect all 5,000 ( or so ) balloting centres . Many voting centres have already been successfully attacked or destroyed in many areas . Now that the picture is clear , the two main competing lists seem to be the United Iraqi Coalition list and Allawi 's Al - Iraqiya list . Ayad Allawi , and other ministers running on his list , have quite expectedly used their governmental positions in campaigning . One minister reportedly handed out 100 dollar ' gifts ' to journalists attending a press conference for Allawi , a practice that brings back bad memories to many Iraqis . Sheikh Naji Al - Abbudi , a spokesman for Sistani , affirmed the claims that the Grand Ayatollah is backing the United Iraqi Coalition list . Indeed , Sistani 's agents all over the country have been quite active in educating Iraqi Shia on the merits of elections , which has led to the assassination of at least two of them . Al - Abbudi stated that " His Emminence " decided to openly support the list because " others " ( obviously a reference to Allawi ) have been abusing official state positions and media outlets in their campaigning . Again there is no official written statement from Sistani 's office confirming this allegation , which I think is intentional . Ahmed Al - Chalabi and defense minister Hazim Al - Sha'lan have been engaging in shrill public attacks over the media . Chalabi describing Sha'lan as a " Ba'athist " and a " former double agent for Saddam and the CIA " , while Sha'lan dismisses Chalabi as a " thief " and an " Iranian stooge who longs for his own origins by defending Iran " . One remark made by Sha'lan on Al - Arabiya TV , that he could n't say more about Chalabi because he would embarrass himself and the viewers almost made me roll on the floor . It was an extremely amusing episode , watching Chalabi looking smug and amused , contrasted with Sha'lan , all serious and barely keeping himself from swearing . Fistfights , please . Hazim Al - Sha'lan , by the way , is the son of the late Sheikh of Al - Khaza'il in Diwaniya and has the potential to replace former information minister , M.S. Al - Sahaf , in his nonsensical media statements , which can be passed as jokes . The main Kurdish coalition list ( PUK and KDP ) is barely mentioned outside the Kurdish region . Even there , many Kurds look and act as if they are going to grab the chance to vote them out of power . I doubt that will be the outcome though . Many Iraqis , including conservative and religious Iraqis , are surprisingly rooting for the Iraqi Communist party , probably in an attempt to counter the influence of Islamists in the forthcoming National Assembly . The Communist party has the largest number of registered party members in the country and can be considered as the oldest popular political party in Iraq . Its support base is much larger than what it seems . *** Several candidates were assassinated and targeted these last two weeks , others have been forced under threats to withdraw and to follow the example of the Islamic party . Sectarian tensions are at their highest since April , 2004 , with Sunni insurgents now openly attacking Husseiniyas and Shia mosques . I had an interesting conversation with a middle - aged taxi driver who used to live in Fallujah and is now at relatives in Amiriya , Baghdad . After asking me which tribe I belong to ( thus assessing my sectarian background ) he started hurling abuses at the Shia , calling them Persians , Majoos ( fire worshippers ) , rabid dogs and a handful of other descriptions that I ca n't mention here . He described Allawi 's face as that of a f*ed horse and he dismissed the whole government as a band of thieves and traitors . I did n't argue with him but I asked him what he believed would be a viable solution to this mess . He said that resistance was the only commonsense solution . First driving out the Americans , then fighting the Shia back into submission ( as in 1991 ) . Sunni Iraqis contend that elections are impossible to hold under occupation . Leaving aside the fact that this views conflicts with other historical examples in the region , Sunnis have never offered an alternative choice , which eventually leads one to guess that the opinion held by the Fallujan taxi driver above is precisely what they are planning to implement . I had another conversation some months ago with a retired Ba'athist old - timer who claimed that Ba'athists have the means to stage a third coup d'etat and return to power within 10 hours of an American withdrawal . On sensing my incredulity to his statement he asserted that Ba'athist cells exist in all parts of the country and that they do have a central command , even though many have formed seperate cells ( often under Islamic labels ) with their own leaderships . He said that they have the training and the funding as well as the support of neighbouring and regional governments . I concur that Ba'athists and former security forces are capable of immediately controlling at least 5 out of 18 governorates , along with the capital , if Americans are to be removed from the picture entirely . But I also see that as a fatal misconception , which is doing Sunnis harm , because I do n't believe the US is going anywhere so soon . Any government that assumes power after the elections also realises this , so not even Sistani is going to call the US to withdraw its troops , despite what he is saying now , not until they are ensured the insurgency is out of the picture , or that they have an alternative foreign power ( in this case Iran ) to back them up . The only hope now is that , following the elections , the National Assembly would offer the hand of peace and reconciliation to the dissenting parties . I would suggest going for tribal Sheikhs rather than clerics , since they have the upper hand in their areas and can effectively root out any Ba'athists in their midst in return for a promise of sharing power and authority . Many of these Sheikhs have been disenfranchised and abused over the last two years . Very recently , US forces in Al - Anbar made a terrible blunder by accidentally killing Abdul - Razaq Inad Al - Gu'ud , Sheikh of the Al - Bu Nimr clan from the powerful Dulaym tribe . Al - Gu'ud had favoured elections and was in good terms with the government . The Gu'ud family even accepted to be offered the seat of Al - Anbar governor some months back . The Al - Bu Nimr in Ramadi and Al - Qaim rose in arms against Saddam in the mid-nineties following the execution of Thamir Madhlum Al - Dulaymi , an Air Force general belonging to their tribe . The revolt took two weeks to be suppressed by the Republican Guard . Another bad step was the recent arrest of Sheikh Hassan Al - Lihabi , of the Lihaib tribe which is scattered between the governorates of Al - Anbar , Mosul and Salah Al - Din . Al - Lihaibi was running in elections and is now said to have withdrawn following this incident . I believe national reconciliation to be the only path forward to a new Iraq . The Shia can not live without the Sunnis , and vice versa . Both have shared this country for the last 14 centuries and there is no possible way that one can live without the other . Even partition is not a possibility , there are no clear borders between the two . Remember Luis Posada Carriles ? Here 's a Miami Herald interview with the relaxed terrorist and former CIA operative in a luxury condo , published yesterday . ( " At first I hid a lot . I thought the US government was looking for me . Now I hide a lot less . " ) Because of such talk , Posada has been taken into custody by Immigration officials . I ca n't imagine they wanted to do this . Authorities would likely have been happy answering questions about Posada 's whereabouts with an indefinite shrug . As recently as last week the official line stated they had no knowledge he had entered the country . But comfortable among the thugs , Posada overplayed his hand and embarrassed his old patron , the US government . And though he 'd been a faithful servant , he was not such a player that he could get away with that . He should have taken a cue from another bomber some pesky dark - skinned foreigners want extradited , CIA operative Michael Meiring . Posada should have told any inquisitive journalist at his doorstep something like Meiring told the single American reporter who bothered following his bloody trail from the Philippines , that " If this harms me in any way , you will find my power then , and you 'll find out who I am . " But then , maybe that would n't have saved him either , because Posada is not Meiring . Posada can be given up , but Meiring ca n't . Meiring 's crimes are fresh , and wave the false flag which is the " War on Terror . " They happened in the Philippines which , like Pakistan , is an important and vulnerable node for the business which intelligence agencies and terrorist organizations conduct with each other . ( Ask Terry Nichols about the Philippines . ) The bombings implicated Muslims , and exacerbated regional tensions which the Bush regime and its friends wearing the brass in the Philippine military sought to exploit . Posada 's crimes , on the other hand , must seem like ancient history , especially to a people who do n't know their history . And to those who do n't even know their crimes , not even that . But will Posada be given up ? I doubt he will be extradited to Venezuela , which is the only way that question could be answered with a Yes . I expect it will be determined that , under " Strong Man " Hugo Chavez , Posada could not be guaranteed a fair trial . The hope may be that Posada can soon be offered to a post-Chavez Allawi - like puppet in Caracas . Whether such an offer were accepted or declined would make no difference ; justice would not be served then . But Posada 's nearly 80 years old , and the Venezuelan people will ensure that 's a vain hope . So instead Posada may be held indefinitely , in comfortable custody . An embarrassment to the US still , just not as embarrassing as having the old killer strut about Miami , gloating in his freedom . Meiring is more than an embarrassment . His case threatens the consensus fiction of the " War on Terror . " So his name will remain unspoken . Another connection to Philippine terror and weapons smuggling - dating from the 1980s - is alleged in the book Disposable Patriot , by Jack Terrell . Terrell , a CIA asset originally recruited for the Contra effort , identifies the man attempting to recruit him into the Philippine scheme as Oliver North ... I seem to recall the object was to smuggle explosives . http://www.amazon.ca/exec/obidos/ASIN/0915765381/701-3377456-8181939 I 've read the book - it 's a first person memoir with the ring of truth , especially since so much of the wider context has confirmed the allegations of Contra drug connections that led to Terrell becoming a target for discrediting by the TWIG counterintelligence group that ran interference for the Contra effort , staffed by covert ops types including Ollie North , Robert Owen , Vince Cannistaro and Buck Revell . Peter Dale Scott includes an account of how Terrell 's whistleblowing was stifled by them in his book Cocaine Politics . ... same ole , same ole ... Due to the Judge in the 1983 case ruling that a CIA agent could not testify using a pseudonym , therefore opening him to cross-examination by Wilson , the prosecution had a problem . They needed someone that could convince the jury they had been able to see all relevant documents in CIA files on Wilson . Wilson was claiming that he had been working for the CIA when he sold the C - 4 to Quaddaffi . The prosecution was charging he was a rogue using his contacts from former service in both CIA and the ' Office of Naval Intelligence ' . Wilson had been able to show that he 'd had more than 80 " non-social contacts " with the CIA since his retirement in 1971 , leaving the prosecution 's case in turmoil . Then Charles A. Briggs came to the rescue . Third ranking CIA officer , Briggs signed a declaration on February 3rd , 1983 , that on November 8th , 1982 , he had authorized a search of CIA records " for any material that in any way pertains to Edwin P. Wilson , or the various allegations concerning his activities after February 28th , 1971 , when he retired from the CIA . " The Briggs Declaration states that with one exception in 1972 , Wilson did not work " directly or indirectly " for the CIA since retiring . http://www.disinfo.com/archive/pages/dossier/id334/pg1/ Last week , Federal District Judge Lynn Hughes in Huston , Texas , threw out Wilson 's two - decades old conviction . Judge Hughes wrote : ` government knowingly used false evidence against him , ' concluding ` honesty comes hard to government . ' http://www.bigeye.com/111003.htm http://www.thekcrachannel.com/news/4503872/detail.html looks like it is rearing its head again in Louisianna .. Former Pastor , Deputy Implicated In Church Child Sex Abuse PONCHATOULA , La. -- Sheriff 's deputies in Louisiana made a third arrest Wednesday in the ongoing investigation of a case involving allegations of sexual abuse of children and animals at a Ponchatoula , La. , church . Austin Aaron Bernard III , 36 , was arrested on a charge of aggravated rape of a child under the age of 13 . Police said Bernard confessed to detectives that he had sex with a young girl in November 2002 and admitted to knowing about sexual acts involving children and a dog that occurred at Hosanna Church . Tangipahoa Parish sheriff 's deputy Christopher Blair Labat , 24 , was booked Tuesday on one count of aggravated rape and one count of crime against nature . On Monday , Louis Lamonica , 45 , the former pastor of Hosanna Church , was booked with two counts of aggravated rape and one count of crime against nature after he walked in to the Livingston Parish Sheriff 's Office and said he could implicate others in a situation at the church that reportedly occurred two years ago . We have a similar case unravelling up here in the northwest with a murder of a family and missing children taken for some purpose . If I was Rummy I 'd send Posada to Iraq to blow things up there . yeah , " things " ... Yesterday evening , the Posada story was featured in the public television news show in Germany ( ARD , Tagesthemen ) . The newly released papers , showing him complicit in the airliner bombing , were mentioned gandalf Now that 's a post I can relate to . You really got me thinking , I enjoy reading this blog . I do n't know how others feel , but I 'm definitely looking into immigration to Canada as an option . The good Ã³l US of A ai nt what it used to be . I like yuor blog . Please check out my who let the dog out blog . hey that 's a great blog , I also have a site about los angeles online dating you can check it out : los angeles online dating This is a excellent blog . Keep it going . This may be of interest to you I have a free online dating service . It pretty much covers dating stuff . I 'll be sure to come back . Hey I just love your blog . I also have a dating advice blog / site . I mostly deals with dating advice Please come and check it out if you get the time ! I was searching for dog food info and found this post . I agree totally ! Paul How Would You Like To Know How YOU Can Live In A Beautiful NEW House That Is Custom - Designed To YOUR Specifications ......... And At NO COST To You ? You CAN Do It . And It 's Not Hard To Do .... IF You Know HOW . Do n't Let This Pass You By Without At Least Taking A Look . The Only Catch Is That You HAVE To Have An Income ABOVE $ 21,000 ...... And ...... You HAVE To Follow The Easy Instructions Provided To You . Get-A-Free-House.com + As the implications of the Andaman Islands situation sink in , Indian intelligence has inevitably come under scrutiny . In recent months , its fallibility has become evident . The inability to foresee in advance the assassination attempt on the pro-India political leader and former Bangladeshi prime minister Sheikh Hasina Wazed last August 21 at a political rally in Dhaka , and the recent " coup " by Nepalese King Gyanendra dismissing his government and imposing a virtual absolute monarchy , are glaring examples of intelligence failure . + Trouble on India 's islands Ramtanu Maitra In early February , India charged 34 Arakan separatists from Myanmar with hiding in the Landfall Islands , part of the Andaman Islands group ( see end note ) . These alleged members of the Arakan Army , the military wing of the National Unity Party in Myanmar , have been charged with illegal entry . It is likely , but not certain , that they will be deported to Myanmar . But the news of the Arakan rebels is just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to growing concern in New Delhi over the security of the Andaman Islands . Reports are circulating in the intelligence community that the Andaman Islands are not only thick with Myanmar rebels . It has also become an arms depot of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam ( LTTE ) , who operate almost freely in the Andaman Sea . Information pointing in this direction came to light after the December 26 tsunami , which took a heavy toll on the Andamans . Correspondents who flocked in to cover the tsunami found they also had another story - the miserable security situation surrounding the Indian navy 's Far Eastern Naval Command , now being established along with India 's " blue water navy " . Deteriorating security Security problems in the Andaman Sea are not new , but they have deteriorated during the past few years , in tandem with a deterioration in the security situation in Bangladesh , Nepal and Bhutan , and particularly in the northeastern Indian states of Manipur , Nagaland and Tripura . While the Indian army has become rock - solid in the western front , and has developed the capability of withstanding any Pakistani adventure in that sector , it has become highly vulnerable in its eastern sector , where its enemy is not a national army but a multitude of secessionist , terrorist and drug - running militants operating between Southeast Asia and northeastern India through Bangladesh . The Andaman Sea is a major conduit for this traffic , and the 572 large and small islands that constitute the Andaman and Nicobar group are a natural transit base . The drugs and arms travel in all directions . Since the " Sea Tigers " of the LTTE , better known as the Tamil Tigers , are the ones who rule the Andaman Sea : they carry the arms and drugs for their own use and also to deliver to rebels in Aceh and all along the east coast of Africa . It is old news that the Tamil Tigers have developed a strong network within South Africa . This is not unknown to New Delhi . A recent report by a journalist from Port Blair , in the Andamans , quoted an unnamed official saying that foreigners from Myanmar , Bangladesh and Sri Lanka have permanently settled in the islands , using fake Indian ration cards , while citizens of Thailand , China , Indonesia and Malaysia have migrated temporarily to plunder the natural resources and leave . " Port Blair , Havelock Islands , Diglipur , Middle Nicobar , Campbell 's Bay , Neil Islands and Rangott are mostly overrun by foreigners , " he said . An official estimate issued in 2003 suggests there are 50,000 " foreigners " in the Andaman Islands , but unofficial figures are much higher than this . A large number of them are Bangladeshis , who like millions of their countrymen have left their densely populated homeland to settle elsewhere . As most of them have few technical skills , and the Andamans have little demand for them in any case , they turn to smuggling and other unlawful activities . The presence of the Sea Tigers in the area with guns , cash and drugs makes the situation extremely dangerous . Reports from Port Blair make it evident that New Delhi gets little on - the - ground intelligence , and the Indian Coast Guard is grossly unequipped to deal with the surge of illegal migrants to the islands . One unnamed naval officer was quoted saying , " Arms smuggling is a very profitable business in this region . " Considering the islands ' huge strategic importance , it is amazing how lax New Delhi has been . These islands sit aside the vital sea lanes of the Strait of Malacca , through which 300 tankers and merchant ships pass daily , bringing in oil for the Far East and Southeast Asia . Intelligence lapses As the implications of the Andaman Islands situation sink in , Indian intelligence has inevitably come under scrutiny . In recent months , its fallibility has become evident . The inability to foresee in advance the assassination attempt on the pro-India political leader and former Bangladeshi prime minister Sheikh Hasina Wazed last August 21 at a political rally in Dhaka , and the recent " coup " by Nepalese King Gyanendra dismissing his government and imposing a virtual absolute monarchy , are glaring examples of intelligence failure . With growing economic and military power , India will be dependent on smaller nations in the region increasingly to maintain regional security . Unless New Delhi does better in providing security to its own nationals against rebels , secessionists , drug runners and arms traffickers , it will not generate much confidence in the capitals of surrounding nations . In fact , it would tend to encourage more organized anti-India outfits , such as the Pakistani Inter- Services Intelligence ( ISI ) and outside - linked Maoists , to exploit these networks and weaken India 's eastern flank . Indian intelligence 's lackluster performance in dealing with the LTTE is startling . This formidable enemy , which gave the Indian army a black eye in the mid-1980s , has been operating in northeastern India and in the Andaman Sea for a long time . In 2001 , according to Indian army officials , security forces launched a wide - ranging operation in the 300 - some inhabited islands neighboring Andaman and Nicobar , and found huge caches of arms . The arms were said to belong to the LTTE and " other terrorist groups " . The search - and - destroy operation was carried out by the Indian government after repeated requests from Colombo . In addition , LTTE activity in the Andaman Sea is well known to local observers . The biggest LTTE maritime disaster was reported in the now - defunct Asiaweek in 2001 . A shipment of weapons , ammunition and explosives , believed to have been purchased from Cambodia and worth several million dollars , left the port of Phuket in Thailand in early February 2001 aboard the freighter Comex - Joux 3 . As is LTTE standard procedure , the vessel changed its name at sea to Horizon . On its journey across the Bay of Bengal the freighter was tracked by the Indian navy and Orissa - based spy planes of India 's Aviation Research Center ; it was intercepted by Indian naval vessels off Sri Lanka 's east coast . LTTE arms - running In 1997 , the Thai navy reported the interception of a 16 - meter boat after a chase off the Thai port of Ranong , and the confiscation of two tons of weapons and ammunition . Among the weapons intercepted were two rocket - propelled - grenade launchers , 20 assault rifles , M - 79 grenade launchers and more than 10,000 rounds of ammunition . Four persons were arrested , reportedly belonging to the Manipur Revolutionary People 's Front . Six crew members were from the Arakan region of Myanmar . The boat was heading toward Cox 's Bazar in Bangladesh . Until 1995 the LTTE maintained a base at Twante , an island off the coat of Myanmar , west of the Andaman islands . Subsequently , Phuket became the LTTE 's main backup base . A Sri Lanka - born Tamil with a Norwegian passport was arrested by Thai authorities in 2000 for his links with the LTTE . At the time of his arrest , the suspect was allegedly involved in constructing a " submarine " in a shipyard on the island of Sirae near Phuket on the Andaman Sea coast . Steady buildup The real threat to the Andaman Islands is the steady building - up of ports and conduits that serve the Tamil Tigers and a host of less - strong militant groups . Over the past decade , Bangladesh has steadily moved into a state of lawlessness . A number of extremist groups , under the cover of the Islamist movement , have become active in drug trafficking , gun running and anti-Indian activities . It is widely acknowledged that the Pakistani ISI has nurtured a number of extremist Islamist groups , such as the Harkat - ul - Jehad - al - Islami , in the port city of Chittagong , and put a number of secessionist rebels from India 's northeast in touch with this terrorist network . As a result , north of the Andaman Islands , Bangladeshi coastal areas have become a nest of terrorists involved in the shipment of drugs and arms . A pattern of arrests and seizures indicate that arms are brought by the LTTE from Laos , Cambodia and Thailand into Chittagong , from where they are transported northward by land to Bhutan . The route from Kalikhola in Bhutan to Cox 's Bazar passes through northern Bengal , Assam and Meghalaya , and on into Chittagong . Note India 's Andaman and Nicobar Islands comprise more than 500 islands lying 1,000 kilometers east of Sri Lanka in the Bay of Bengal . Stretching 750 kilometers from end to end , they reach from near the coast of Myanmar almost to Sumatra in Indonesia . The Ten Degree Channel divides the Andamans , which are the larger and more heavily populated northern islands , from the 20 or so Nicobar Islands in the south . On South Andaman , the most heavily populated island , is Port Blair , which is the capital and the only large town in the entire archipelago . Travel to the Nicobar Islands is forbidden to non-Indians , and they are also not allowed in some parts of South Andaman Island . Ramtanu Maitra writes for a number of international journals and is a regular contributor to the Washington - based EIR and the New Delhi - based Indian Defense Review . He also writes for Aakrosh , India 's defense - tied quarterly journal . [ Karzai also has to deal with the stepped up rivalry between India and Pakistan in Afghanistan . Islamabad accuses New Delhi of using its consulates in Kandahar and Jalalabad to train Balochi insurgents who are active in Pakistani Balochistan . Pakistani officials claim there are as many as 42 RAW agents based in Kandahar and another 12 in Jalalabad . “ There have no business being there unless they are undermining Pakistan , ’’ says a Pakistani official . Both India and Afghanistan deny the claim . ‘’ Should Pakistan show us any evidence of an Indian hand using Afghan soil to work against our neighbours we will take it very seriously , ” says Amrullah Saleh the head of Afghanistan ’s National Security Directorate . ] Karzai , Musharraf new regional equations KABUL : For the past 25 years landlocked Afghanistan has suffered from constant interference from its neighbours - Pakistan , Iran and the Central Asian Republics - and regional powers - Russia and India . The neighbours are still interfering , but there are signs that rather than undermining Afghanistan ’s stability they may now be trying to strengthen it . “ The elections should be a reassurance to all our neighbours that a stable Afghanistan , a peaceful Afghanistan is good for all . Nobody should feel a looser in Afghanistan , ’’ President Hamid Karzai told Pakistan ’s English daily The Nation . All the regional countries have publicly backed the Karzai government and supported the electoral process , but serious undercurrents remain as they all have their favourite contenders in Afghanistan . Since September 11 , Pakistan has been repeatedly accused by Afghan and Western leaders of harbouring Taliban extremists who had pledged to disrupt the elections , but at the highest level the US has avoided criticising President Pervaiz Musharraf on the grounds that he is helping the US catch Al Qaeda elements inside Pakistan . That changed on September 22 when President George W. Bush , Musharraf and Karzai held a three way meeting in New York on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly . The meeting was pushed together by the CIA and the US Defence Department who were desperately anxious to secure a peaceful election in Afghanistan and the non-interference of alleged Pakistani backed Taliban . Western and Afghan diplomats intimately involved with the meeting , said Bush pushed Musharraf hard on reigning in the Taliban so the elections could take place peacefully . ‘’ Where are Mullah Omar , Mullah Usmani and Gulbuddin Hikmetar ? ’’ Bush is reported to have asked a flustered Musharraf . All three are extremist Taliban or their allies and known to be living in Pakistan . ( Mullah Omar is leader of the Taliban , Usmani is the former corps commander of Kandahar under the Taliban regime and now a commander of Taliban forces while Hikmetyar heads the extremist Hizb - e - Islami . ) ‘’ It was the first time that Bush totally focused on the Taliban threat rather than Al Qaeda with the Pakistanis , ’’ says a Western diplomat . ‘’ Bush was very well briefed before the meeting , ’’ the diplomat said . An Afghan official at the meeting added , ‘’ The Americans now realise that the Taliban are a bigger threat to our security than Al Qaeda . ’’ Karzai was clearly pleased at the results . ‘’ President Musharraf promised to help us and cooperate with us on curbing terrorist activity by the Taliban , ’’ says Karzai . The next day an angry Musharraf categorically said that Pakistan would not send Pakistani troops to Iraq , a clear snub to the Americans . Until then he had said Pakistan ’s options were open . However Pakistani officials insist that the decision was unconnected to the tripartite meeting . US and NATO military officers in Kabul say it is too early to say whether Bush ’s tough message was instrumental in persuading Musharraf and the ISI to pressure the Taliban to restrain from disrupting the elections . However there were visible signs of a crackdown on the Pakistan side . ‘’ Pakistan now has a large force deployed in Baluchistan which was not there before , ’’ says Lt. General David Barno . ‘’ There is much better tactical cooperation between our forces on both sides of the border , but the movement of Taliban still goes on both ways , ’’ he adds . Also several days before the elections Pakistan closed the border crossing point at Chaman in Baluchistan which is a key entry point for the Taliban into Afghanistan . However US military officers say regular army officers - many of them Pashtun - leading units of the Frontier Corps who are on the border remain deeply sympathetic to the Taliban and the mullahs of the JUI . At the same time the US remains oblivious of the serious problems and political fallout which the army is facing in its operations in Waziristan . Not only is the army facing serious political fallout , growing anti-Americanism and anti-army feeling in the tribal areas but it is also taking heavy casualties - between 400 - 500 Pakistani soldiers have been killed in the region since March . Musharraf has always maintained that the US has never provided actionable intelligence about Taliban leaders hiding in Baluchistan . That too may change . US and Afghan intelligence will shortly be presenting the ISI with a list of Taliban extremists and their suspected whereabouts . Moreover there are now major covert attempts under way to try and bring back to Kabul leading Taliban commanders , who have been living quietly in Pakistan and have taken no part in the Taliban insurgency . With the Taliban failure to disrupt the Afghan elections , the militants are even more isolated from the mainstream Taliban who want to return home . Until now Pakistan has not facilitated such a return and clearly it can not happen until there is both a pull from Kabul and a push from Islamabad . With President Karzai certain to win the elections and the demotion of key former Northern Alliance figures such as General Fahim and warlord Ismail Khan , there is now little reason for moderate Taliban leaders to fear reprisals from former Northern Alliance figures if they return home . Their removal should also provide increased motivation for Pakistan to help the return of moderate Taliban . Afghan officials welcomed the appointment on October 3 of Lt. General Ashfaq Kiyani as the new ISI chief . Kayani is well known and liked in Kabul as during the last year he led the Pakistani delegation in the tripartite military meetings with the Afghan and US military on issues related to border issues . Karzai also has to deal with the stepped up rivalry between India and Pakistan in Afghanistan . Islamabad accuses New Delhi of using its consulates in Kandahar and Jalalabad to train Balochi insurgents who are active in Pakistani Balochistan . Pakistani officials claim there are as many as 42 RAW agents based in Kandahar and another 12 in Jalalabad . “ There have no business being there unless they are undermining Pakistan , ’’ says a Pakistani official . Both India and Afghanistan deny the claim . ‘’ Should Pakistan show us any evidence of an Indian hand using Afghan soil to work against our neighbours we will take it very seriously , ” says Amrullah Saleh the head of Afghanistan ’s National Security Directorate . Karzai categorically said that he has assured Musharraf repeatedly that any adverse action against Pakistan taken by Indian diplomats inside Afghanistan would be acted upon swiftly . Senior US diplomats and military officials have warned India also . In a major regional shift reflecting the newly strengthened position of Karzai , Iran , Russia and India which have traditionally backed the Tajik dominated former Northern Alliance made strenuous efforts to convince presidential candidate Younis Qanooni to strike a deal with Karzai before the elections and not to oppose Karzai . Iran in particular feared that Qanooni would loose and then be politically isolated from the mainstream . Qanooni refused to accept the Iranian advice as his fellow Panjsheri Tajiks urged him to stand against Karzai . However since the elections Iranian influence has proved critical in convincing the Hazara Shia candidate Mohammed Mohaqeq to accept the results of the elections and later convincing Qanooni to do the same . With the US military presence posing a threat on their borders in both Iraq and Afghanistan , Iran ’s moderate leadership is keen to help stabilise Karzai so that the US presence in Afghanistan is reduced . However powerful hardliners in Tehran may be trying to undermine that strategy and a new issue is likely to deepen the rift with the moderates . Iranian officials are deeply concerned about the US occupation of Shindand , a massive Soviet - era airbase just 30 kilometres from Iran ’s border . The enhanced US presence in western Afghanistan was only made possible after the ousting of Ismail Khan , the warlord and Governor of Herat province last month , who was a close ally of Iranian hardliners . Iranian officials say they made no objections to Khan ’s ouster because they want to strengthen Karzai ’s campaign against warlords . At a time of heightened tensions between Tehran and Washington over Iran ’s nuclear weapons program and calls by neo-conservatives in Washington that a second Bush term should deal with Iran aggressively , the Iranians fear that Shindand could be used as a listening post , spying facility and even a launching pad for any future US actions against Iran . Afghan officials say the Americans have moved over 100 Special Forces and helicopters to Shindand . However General Barno insists the US presence poses no threat to Iran . ‘’ We have a very small number of forces in Shindand with a few helicopters , ’’ says Barno . Nevertheless this places Karzai in a difficult and sensitive situation because he has to maintain excellent relations with both the US and Iran . ‘’ Afghanistan has had the benefit of cooperation from both the US and Iran . So far what they have done together has been good for us and that ’s how we would like to keep it ’’ , says Karzai . Nobody can claim that the interference of Afghanistan ’s neighbours is over , but the elections will do much to strengthen Karzai and deal more firmly with neighbours ’ interference . In the post election scenario it is becoming abundantly clear that the Taliban do not have the support of the Afghan people nor the Afghan Pashtuns . In a highly significant move Afghan Pashtun tribes along the Pakistan border warned the Taliban in Quetta and Chaman that if they try and disrupt the elections , they would be resisted . Many Taliban living in Afghanistan voted for President Karzai . It is now abundantly clear that with the rapidly changing face of Afghanistan , the demise of key Northern Alliance figures and the fluid political situation in Afghanistan , Pakistan should reconsider its policy of giving unlimited sanctuary to Taliban extremists living on Pakistani soil . Pakistan Link 16/10/2004 The debate that a handful of Texas multi-millionnaires close to the Bush family have cleverly manufactured over John Kerry 's war record is absurd in every way . The charges that they have put some vets up to making against Kerry are false and can be demonstrated by the historical record to be false . Most of those making the charges have even flip - flopped , contradicting themselves . Or they were n't eyewitnesses and are just lying . But to address the substance of this Big Lie is to risk falling into its logic . The true absurdity of the entire situation is easily appreciated when we consider that George W. Bush never showed any bravery at all at any point in his life . He has never lived in a war zone . If some of John Kerry 's wounds were superficial , Bush received no wounds . ( And , a piece of shrapnel in the forearm that caused only a minor wound would have killed had it hit an eye and gone into the brain ; the shrapnel being in your body demonstrates you were in mortal danger and did n't absent yourself from it . That is the logic of the medal ) . Kerry saved a man 's life while under fire . Bush did no such thing . What was Bush doing with his youth ? He was drinking . He was drinking like a fish , every night , into the wee hours . For decades . He gave no service to anyone , risked nothing , and did not even slack off efficiently . The history of alcoholism and possibly other drug use is a key issue because it not only speaks to Bush 's character as an addictive personality , but may tell us something about his erratic and alarming actions as president . His explosive temper probably provoked the disastrous siege of Fallujah last spring , killing 600 Iraqis , most of them women and children , in revenge for the deaths of 4 civilian mercenaries , one of them a South African . ( Newsweek reported that Bush commanded his cabinet , " Let heads roll ! " ) That temper is only one problem . Bush has a sadistic streak . He clearly enjoyed , as governor , watching executions . His delight in killing people became a campaign issue in 2000 when he seemed , in one debate , to enjoy the prospect of executing wrong - doers a little too much . He has clearly gone on enjoying killing people on a large scale in Iraq . Drug abuse can affect the ability of the person to feel deep emotions like empathy . Two decades of pickling his nervous system in various highly toxic substances have left Bush damaged goods . Even for those who later abstain , " visual - spatial abilities , abstraction , problem solving , and short - term memory , are the slowest to recover . " That he managed to get on the wagon ( though with that pretzel incident , you wonder how firmly ) is laudable . But he suffers the severe effects of the aftermath , and we are all suffering along with him now , since he is the most powerful man in the world . We all know by now that Bush did not even do his full service with the Texas Air National Guard , absenting himself to work on the Alabama senate campaign of Winton " Red " Blount . Whether he was actually AWOL during this stint is unclear . But it is clear that not only did Bush slack off on his National Guard service , but he slacked off from his campaign work . This little - noted interview with Blount 's nephew Murph Archibald , which appeared on National Public Radio 's " All Things Considered on March 30 , 2004 , gives a devastating insight into what it was like to have to suffer through Bush in that period . " All Things Considered ( 8:00 PM ET ) - NPR March 30 , 2004 Tuesday This campaign season , there have been questions about whether George W. Bush fulfilled his obligations to the National Guard as a young lieutenant in the early 1970s . For weeks , reporters scoured Alabama in search of pilots or anyone who might have remembered seeing Mr. Bush at the time he was serving in the National Guard there . There is one place in Alabama where Mr. Bush was present nearly every day : the headquarters in Montgomery of US Senate candidate Winton " Red " Blount . President Bush has always said that working for Blount was the reason he transferred to the Alabama Air National Guard . NPR 's Wade Goodwyn has this report about Mr. Bush 's time on that campaign . WADE GOODWYN reporting : In 1972 , Baba Groom was a smart , funny young woman smack - dab in the middle of an exciting US Senate campaign . Groom was Republican Red Blount 's scheduler , and in that job , she was the hub in the campaign wheel . Ask her about the handsome young man from Texas , and she remembers him 32 years later like it was yesterday . Ms. BABA GROOM ( Former Campaign Worker ) : He would wear khaki trousers and some old jacket . He was always ready to go out on the road . On the phone , you could hear his accent . It was a Texas accent . But he just melded with everybody . GOODWYN : The candidate Mr. Bush was working for , Red Blount , had gotten rich in Alabama in the construction business . Prominent Southern Republicans were something of a rare breed in those days . Blount 's support of the party led him to be appointed Richard Nixon 's postmaster general . In Washington , Blount became friends and tennis partners with Mr. Bush 's father , then Congressman Bush . That was how 26 - year - old Lieutenant Bush came to Montgomery , at his father 's urging . . . It was Mr. Bush 's job to organize the Republican county chairpersons in the 67 Alabama counties . Back in 1972 in the Deep South , many rural counties did n't have much in the way of official Republican Party apparatus . But throughout Alabama , there were Republicans and Democrats who wanted to help Red Blount . It was the young Texan 's job to find out what each county leader needed in the way of campaign supplies and get those supplies to them . Groom says this job helped Mr. Bush understand how even in a statewide Senate campaign , politics are local . . . . Murph Archibald is Red Blount 's nephew by marriage , and in 1972 , he was coming off a 15 - month tour in Vietnam in the infantry . Archibald says that in a campaign full of dedicated workers , Mr. Bush was not one of them . Mr. MURPH ARCHIBALD ( Nephew of Red Blount ) : Well , I was coming in early in the morning and leaving in mid-evenings . Ordinarily , George would come in around noon ; he would ordinarily leave around 5:30 or 6:00 in the evening . GOODWYN : Archibald says that two months before the election , in September of '72 , Red Blount 's campaign manager came to him and asked that he quietly take over Mr. Bush 's job because the campaign materials were not getting out to the counties . Mr. ARCHIBALD : George certainly did n't seem to have any concerns about my taking over this work with the campaign workers there . My overall impression was that he did n't seem as interested in the campaign as the other people who were working at the state headquarters . GOODWYN : Murph Archibald says that at first , he did n't know that Mr. Bush was serving in the Air National Guard . After he found out from somebody else , Archibald attempted to talk to Mr. Bush about it . The president was a lieutenant and Archibald had been a lieutenant , too ; he figured they had something to talk about . Mr. ARCHIBALD : George did n't have any interest at all in talking about the military . In fact , when I broached the subject with him , he simply changed the subject . He was n't unpleasant about it , but he just changed the subject and would n't talk about it . GOODWYN : Far from Texas and Washington , DC , Mr. Bush enjoyed his freedom . He dated a beautiful young woman working on the campaign . He went out in the evenings and had a good time . In fact , he left the house he rented in such disrepair -- with damage to the walls and a chandelier destroyed -- that the Montgomery family who owned it still grumble about the unpaid repair bill . Archibald says Mr. Bush would come into the office and , in a friendly way , offer up stories about the drinking he 'd done the night before , kind of as a conversation starter . Mr. ARCHIBALD : People have different ways of starting the days in any office . They 're going to talk about their kids , they 're going to talk about football , they 're going to talk about the weather . And this was simply his opening gambit ; he would start talking about that he had been out late the night before drinking . GOODWYN : Archibald says the frequency with which Mr. Bush discussed the subject was off - putting to him . Mr. ARCHIBALD : I mean , at that time , I was 28 ; George would have been 25 or 26 . And I thought it was really unusual that someone in their mid-20s would initiate conversations , particularly in the context of something as serious as a US senatorial campaign , by talking about their drinking the night before . I thought it unusual and , frankly , inappropriate . GOODWYN : According to Archibald , Mr. Bush would also sometimes tell stories about his days at Yale in New Haven , and how whenever he got pulled over for erratic driving , he was let go after the officers discovered he was the grandson of a Connecticut US senator . Archibald , a middle - class Alabama boy -- who , by the way , is now a registered Democrat -- did n't like that story . Mr. ARCHIBALD : He told us whenever he was stopped , as soon as the law enforcement found out that he was the grandson of Prescott Bush , they would let him go . And he would always laugh about that . " Goodwyn dutifully notes that Baba Groom did n't remember George telling drunk stories . But that means nothing , since they were n't the sort of things guys like Bush told the " girls " . He was trying to buddy with Archibald and impress him . Again , decades of this sort of behavior do not leave a person untouched . Our world is in crisis and our Republic is in danger . It should not be left in the hands of a man who spent his life like this . When the cities are on fire with the burning flesh of men Just remember that death is not the end And you search in vain to find just one law abiding citizen Just remember that death is not the end - Bob Dylan Afraid I do n't have time today to discuss these , but some stories need attention : From Wednesday 's Mirror the headline , " Have 200,000 AK47s Fallen Into the Hands of Iraq Terrorists ? " ( also see this thread on the RI discussion board ) : Some 200,000 guns the US sent to Iraqi security forces may have been smuggled to terrorists , it was feared yesterday . The 99 - tonne cache of AK47s was to have been secretly flown out from a US base in Bosnia . But the four planeloads of arms have vanished . Orders for the deal to go ahead were given by the US Department of Defense . But the work was contracted out via a complex web of private arms traders . And the Moldovan airline used to transport the shipment was blasted by the UN in 2003 for smuggling arms to Liberia , human rights group Amnesty has discovered . It follows a separate probe claiming that thousands of guns meant for Iraq 's police and army instead went to al - Qaeda . Amnesty chief spokesman Mike Blakemore said : " It 's unbelievable that no one can account for 200,000 assault rifles . If these weapons have gone missing it 's a terrifying prospect . " American defence chiefs hired a US firm to take the guns , from the 90s Bosnian war , to Iraq . But air traffic controllers in Baghdad have no record of the flights , which supposedly took off between July 2004 and July 2005 . A coalition forces spokesman confirmed they had not received " any weapons from Bosnia " and added they were " not aware of any purchases for Iraq from Bosnia " . Nato and US officials have already voiced fears that Bosnian arms - sold by US , British and Swiss firms - are being passed to insurgents . A NATO spokesman said : " There 's no tracking mechanism to ensure they do n't fall into the wrong hands . There are concerns that some may have been siphoned off . " This year a newspaper claimed two UK firms were involved in a deal in which thousands of guns for Iraqi forces were re-routed to al - Qaeda . The Moldovan airline is Aerocom , and yes , it 's one of Victor Bout 's . It 's always a bang - your - head - against - the - wall moment , reading again the play the incompetence theory receives , even from some of the Administration 's harshest mainstream critics . But then , even to talk of an " administration " may be misdirection at this point , given how little representative government means in the United States these days , and how much of " national security " has been privatized into a global gangland of drugs and guns . Like the tens of billions of dollars that have been " lost " in Iraq , planeloads of arms do n't just " vanish " ; not when the Pentagon contracts the work to an international criminal of Bout 's untouchable stature . But Bout 's name is n't likely to be mentioned in whatever coverage this story receives , before it sinks like so many others beneath the media 's frothing triviality . Meanwhile , a decision 's been reached in the trial of Toledo priest Gerald Robinson . And it 's guilty : The Rev. Gerald Robinson appeared stony - faced as the jury 's guilty verdict was read , and he blinked repeatedly and glanced at his lawyers before being led away in handcuffs . ... The crime occurred in the sacristy adjoining the hospital chapel in downtown Toledo on the Saturday before Easter in 1980 . Investigators said the nun , Margaret Ann Pahl , 71 , was strangled and then stabbed , with nine wounds on her chest forming the shape of an inverted cross , a well - recognized Satanic symbol . An altar cloth was draped over her half - naked body , which was posed as if she had been sexually assaulted . " It was about how he could humiliate her the most , " prosecutor Dean Mandros said in closing arguments . " He left a message for everyone to see ... maybe to God himself . " After the sentencing one of Robinson 's tearful supporters " turned to Claudia Vercellotti , a local leader of the Survivors Network for Those Abused by Priests [ SNAP ] , who had helped reopen the case , and told her , ' I hope you rot in hell ! ' " From SNAP 's statement on the Robinson conviction : More than ever , police and prosecutors have the tools and the will to go after horrific crimes , even when the defendants are seemingly powerful individuals or institutions . When victims and witnesses stay silent , nothing changes . When victims and witnesses speak up , at least sometimes a child is protected , the truth is exposed , and justice is done . The murder weapon , Robinson 's letter opener : Finally , from an email , a follow - up on the reopening of the investigation into the Atlanta Child Murders : Dekalb County Police Chief Louis Graham ... the man who reopened the investigations last year , is mysteriously stepping down . And of all the people who the county is getting to find a replacement ... is none other than Lee Brown , the original supervisor of the Atlanta PD , who was in office during the murders and the subsequent investigation . SNAP is right in part . Police and prosecutors have the tools . The will is another matter . Some do , individually . But institutionally ? That 's still the domain of those who do n't . lots of important stories out there today jeff .... thank god and a few good souls for that conviction . Have you sent this to congress yet ? talk about law enforcement not having the will ... CRACKDOWN ON POLYGAMY GROUP Small polygamous groups have existed in the southwestern US under the watchful yet fairly benign eye of authorities ever since a sect known as the Fundamentalist Latter Day Saints ( FLDS ) separated itself from mainstream Mormonism in 1890 . ... Now , FLDS leader Warren Jeffs has been added to the FBI 's list of " Ten Most Wanted Fugitives , " a move that caps law enforcement 's dramatic change of approach toward the polygamous group in recent years ... [ because of ] the impact that the group 's practices , law enforcement officials say , are having on the most vulnerable within the sect , particularly children and women . When the FLDS under Mr. Jeffs ( and his father before him ) grew to some 10,000 followers in several southwestern communities with estimated assets of $ 110 million ; when it became clear that government officials , school authorities , and police in those communities had become intertwined with the sect ; when ex-members increasingly reported child and sexual abuse charges ( mainly involving underage girls forced to marry older men ) ; and when the sect began to use secluded compounds , state and federal authorities started to crack down more vigorously . ... Specifically , Jeffs is charged in Utah and Arizona with sexual assault of underage girls and with arranging " spiritual " marriages for girls and older men . At weekend press conferences in Salt Lake City and Phoenix , FBI and state officials said Jeffs " is considered armed and dangerous and may be traveling with armed bodyguards . " In the past , he has talked in apocalyptic terms about a violent end to the world , according to former members . ... As with Christian Identity and other hate - related philosophies tied to the Aryan Nations and the neo-Nazi Creativity Movement , Jeffs has preached racism as well . " The black race is the people through which the devil has always been able to bring evil unto the earth , " Jeffs has said as cited by the Southern Poverty Law Center 's " Intelligence Report . " An editorial in the church - owned Deseret Morning News in Salt Lake City earlier this year acknowledged that " the state 's history , a conservative belief in free choice , and an unwillingness to stir up a hornet 's nest in the national media have likely all contributed to the kid - glove approach lawmakers and law - enforcement officers have taken when dealing with polygamous communities . " http://www.csmonitor.com/2006/0509/p02s01-ussc.html?s=t5 Maybe I 'm missing something here , but how , exactly , does one ' Loose ' 200,000 AK47's ? " There 's no tracking mechanism in place " ?!?!? Never mind . No need to worry . I 'm sure this kind of thing goes on all the time . We now return you to your regularly scheduled programming .... just go here , it s simply amazing The Raw Story i count like 14 explosive headlines . Then , of course , there is the evidence the jury did not hear about in the Robinson case ... Funny how some things are squirelled away by well - meaning prosecutors ... Maybe because they hint at a larger conspiracy / network of abusers / satanic underground ? I read of a case not long ago when some people were trying to get a polygamous judge taken off the bench for not obeying state law . Of course law enforcement has dragged it's feet when members are taking part in the activity themselves . Personally I do n't give a damn what adults do to one another as long as there is no abuse invovled . It is the marrying off of young girls to older men often close relatives that enfurates me . Also these cults have multimillions yet the women and kids live in poverty so the leaders can live the high life . In the Warren Jeffs cult he reassigns wives if the husband displeases him or to reward the new husband . Husbands marry mothers and teen daughters at the same time . a rare form of retardation is showing up in that group more than anywhere else in the world . It is genetic and the child needs to get the gene from both parents to turn into a vegetable instead of a thinking child . The doctor begs them to stop intermarrying but they say they have to keep the blood pure . look up fumarase deficiency for more info . Also look up the kingston family . One member actually was convicted of beating his teen daughter unconcious when she ran away from ' marriage ' to her father 's own brother . no one was charged for forced marriage , only the beating . So we " lost " some weapon ? It 's a good thing too . We would n't want those terrorists to run out of shit to shoot at us . Then the war might stop & all those juicy profits would just evaporate . What 's a few dead soldiers in comparison to keeping all those defense contractors awash in all that tax cash ? They really are milking the incompetence angle though , are n't they ? Just another big Iraq whoopsie daisy , huh ? Christ , you 'd think America would get a bit tired of these guys treating her like she was populated with nothing but gullible idiots . I suppose that it 's damn lucky for the GOP that she is populated with gullible idiots . US outsourcing special ops , intelligence to Iraq terror group , intelligence officials say The Pentagon is bypassing official US intelligence channels and turning to a dangerous and unruly cast of characters in order to create strife in Iran in preparation for any possible attack , former and current intelligence officials say ... http://www.rawstory.com/news/2006/US_outsourcing_special_operations_intelligence_gathering_0413.html A country deserves the leaders it has , my friends ... And MEK -- the Iranian ( not Iraqi ) terror group in question -- is itself unquestionably a cult : As the leaders like to boast , the Mujahedeen is a family affair . ( '' We have three generations of martyrs : grandmothers , mothers , daughters . '' ) Most of the girls I was meeting had grown up in Mujahedeen schools in Ashraf , where they lived separated from their parents . Family visits were allowed on Thursday nights and Fridays . When Iraq invaded Kuwait , many of these girls were transported to Jordan and then smuggled to various countries -- Germany , France , Canada , Denmark , England , the United States -- where they were raised by guardians who were usually Mujahedeen supporters . When they were 18 or 19 , many of them decided to come back to Iraq and fill the ranks of the youngest Mujahedeen generation . Though '' decided '' is probably not the right word , since from the day they were born , these girls and boys were not taught to think for themselves but to blindly follow their leaders . '' Every morning and night , the kids , beginning as young as 1 and 2 , had to stand before a poster of Massoud and Maryam , salute them and shout praises to them , '' Nadereh Afshari , a former Mujahedeen deep - believer , told me . Afshari , who was posted in Germany and was responsible for receiving Mujahedeen children during the gulf war , said that when the German government tried to absorb Mujahedeen children into their education system , the Mujahedeen refused . Many of the children were sent to Mujahedeen schools , particularly in France . The Rajavis , Afshari went on to say , '' saw these kids as the next generation 's soldiers . They wanted to brainwash them and control them . '' Which may explain the pattern to their stories : a journey to self - empowerment and the enlightenment of self - sacrifice inspired by the light and wisdom of Maryam and Massoud . Link One has to wonder whether the bright fellows in our government and military who set up the deals with these people do n't know what they are , do n't care , or know perfectly well . Jeff , SPLOID.com cited you on the topic of that priest conviction : http://www.sploid.com/news/2006/05/evil_priest_gui.php Umm ... Question Mark Jimmy Plant , Blogshares is a fantasy blogosphere trading game with pretend money . That 's all I know ; I 've had nothing to do with it . Bush successfully makes Satan look good in comparison . Or something like that . http://www.laweekly.com/general/features/satan-loves-you/13454/ " Another generation of heavy metal has taken over , and -- sorry -- it ai n't just about strippers and dope . Okay , it 's partly about strippers and dope . And we 'll get around to that . But more and more , as metal evolves into a huge international music that belongs to everyone , it has gotten to be something weirder . It 's become a guardian of morality -- not church morality ; real morality . Praise be : Given the void in responsible behavior among governments , police , educational establishments and religions , the task of guiding our youth down the path of righteousness has fallen to ... Satan " Hmmmmmm .................... The people who carry out these underground arms / drugs / sex trafficking deals are trauma based mind controlled slaves . The Moldovan airline is Aerocom , and yes , it 's one of Victor Bout 's . The wikipedia entry for Aerocom is just a stub .. waiting for someone to put some information into it .... http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aerocom So ... put some information in there . You know , nature hates a void . :) Richard , i agree , Hmmmmmm . How are chants of death and suicide ... morality . What about Manson 's tees bearing the message , " Kill your parents " . And were the Columbine killers acting out this " real morality " when they indescriminately murdered their classmates . They were death metal brainwashed fans , literally fulfilling the death metal paradigm , er ... morality . ( not church morality , no that is phoney , love thy neighbor ... hell no , kill thy neighbor - now that is REAL MORALITY ????? ) So , hmmmm indeed . I detect the hissing lisp of the lying serpent in this article . The deathly inversion of truth , ala satanism . I think the jury 's still out on exactly who did the brainwashing when in regard to the Columbine killers . Perhaps we should look at the death metal phenomenon less as an invitation to violence than as a couter-cultural response to the over hypocrisy of a large percentage of the ' Church - Morality ' crowd , which gives a lot of lip service to loving thy neighbor , but does n't apply that love very far beyond their own congregation . The last I checked , the Satanists have a long way to go to catch up with the death and destruction dealt out by self - proclaimed ( though false ) Christians . Irony is dead ... Long live Irony ! That 's it . I 'm firing my editor . Well , it 's not as simple and clear cut as all that . We 're entering into some interesting and perhaps previously unexplored socio-political - spiritual territory here that may require further examination and serious introspection . The Kevin Coogan publication posted on the previous thread might serve as a good launching point for further discussion . The following quote is from that Coogan article : Imaginary evil is romantic and varied ; real evil is gloomy , monotonous , barren , boring . Imaginary good is boring ; real good is always new , marvelous , intoxicating . - Simone Weil Starroute : I would n't wonder too hard . The answer is likely D : all of the above , due to this being a complex reality we live in . But to me , without question , they often know perfectly well . Here is a thought : When the appartently cognitively functional take actions that seem senseless and incompetent , it is a most certain sign that they have ulterior or hidden motives . They trust you and me to be befuddled by their actions , while they " do as they wilt " . http://youtube.com/watch?v=d46_ctqDmI4 To not buying the BS & here I am thinking that I really must be getting old . Since the article was specifically about " death metal " I guess the author missed this little tidbit or we just have waaaaaaaaaaaaay different definitions of morality : http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/programmes/this_world/4446342.stm One man 's relentless search for his missing son led him to uncover one of the most shocking crimes in post-war Italy - a tale of satanism and violence that has gripped the country for more than a year . In January 1998 Fabio Tollis and Chiara Marino , both just 16 , disappeared . They had been drinking at a pub called the Midnight - the centre of the heavy metal scene in Milan - and they never came home . The police and many of their friends just thought they had run off together . But their parents refused to accept this . Michele Tollis , Fabio 's father , began to attend metal concerts and festivals across Europe , handing out leaflets and quizzing Fabio 's friends . Fabio and his friends were into the most extreme forms of heavy metal music - death metal and black metal , music obsessed with images of murder and satanism - and the role of this music is central to the story . No one can contradict me when I say that heavy metal and satanism are closely linked Michele Tollis It emerged that Chiara , the girl who disappeared with Fabio , had a collection of satanic literature and paraphernalia in her bedroom . During this search , Michele Tollis became convinced that satanism had something to do with his son 's disappearance . " No one can contradict me when I say that heavy metal and satanism are closely linked . They 're inseparable , " he says . Yeah , I think Jeff wrote on one of his posts here in the past several months : " To hell with death " . I wholly agree , and would expand that statement to include : " To hell with death metal " . The freaky thing here is that these bozos are seriously claiming the moral high ground ? ? ? ? ? Talk about a beat - your - head - against - the - wall moment ! And for ' Smartwolf ' above , think about the inversion principle being employed . They are doing it deliberately . Do you really think GWB , and neocons in general are representative of true followers of Jesus of Nazareth ? ( I know , ignorant question ) Then why call them , or any other phonies ' Christians ' , even if they themselves claim the appellation . They are merely imposters . Everything they claim is a lie , and this above all . So why even credit their claims ? This only serves their purposes . They want to be identified as ' Christians ' , and I fully suspect that for some of them , the motivation behind their subterfuge is more than mere political advantage , and has a lot more to do with the black magician 's practice of the inversion principle . We need to be more ' rigorous ' about how we perceive these people . See them as they are , not for what they claim to be . ... the most extreme forms of heavy metal music - death metal and black metal , music obsessed with images of murder and satanism - and the role of this music is central to the story . Almost all of the avant guard art movements of the early 20th Century ( except for Italian Futurism ) were labeled ' degenerate ' by the National Socialists . Adolf Hitler even held an exhibition of ' degenerate art ' in 1937 , while curating a parallel show of ' Aryan ' art across the street . The German Expressionist movement was destroyed as a result . Here 's a quick overview of the Entartete Kunst ( Degenerate Art ) exhibit of 1937 : http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Degenerate_art Ironically ( or perhaps not ) , the notion of the ' degenerate ' and ' degenerate art ' was appropriated by the Nazis and its origins can be traced back to Jewish ' intellectual ' Max Nordau and a 1892 book he authored called Degeneration . . Nordau was also the co founder of the World Zionist Organization . When the apparently cognitively functional take actions that seem senseless and incompetent , it is a most certain sign that they have ulterior or hidden motives . They trust you and me to be befuddled by their actions , while they " do as they wilt . " A question : Are the adherent of ' Crowleyan Thelema ' and others of similar ilk appropriating or appropriating from the appropriators to redirect ' energy ? ' Does this reappropriation lead to or originate from the same place ? Seems as if there is a clear distinction being made between the ' imaginary ' Whore of Babalon and the actually Whore of Babylon , which is this global system . Is the distinction accurate and valid ? Does the distinction actually exist ? This is where the socio - political aspect of this conundrum comes into play . Confused ? Good . so , enemy , what 's your point ? Why do n't you state it ? My point is that these are all just questions and I am undecided as to the answers . Here 's another interesting example : John Balance from Coil . ( Do n't wish to use Wikipedia again , it 's just easier than spending time looking up more obscure and detailed information . ) http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Balance http://www.guardian.co.uk/obituaries/story/0,3604,1371372,00.html Balance died in 2004 after a ' fall . ' He blended belief systems such as Shamanism , Christianity , Buddhism , Paganism , Hermeticism and Gnosticism and imbued Coil 's vast output with a magickal current designed to have a functionally transcendent effect on listeners . Not 200,000 guns - the numbers do nt work : 5 kg per gun , 200,000 guns means 1000 tonnes , impossible for 4 containers . If the load was 99 tonnes there were probably less than 20,000 . E@tG : Maybe if you formulate your questions a little more specifically it will help you in acquiring the answers . " I am , therefore I think " :) Reporting from the town where Susan Polk 's trial is going on . I went across the bay last night to attend a farmer 's market and music event . Lo and behold , the Mormons were there with a booth . Two young men delivering information about the Mormon genealogy program . Just give your email and / or phone number to these guys and they 'll track down your family . I was amazed at the spiel they delivered . Kindly young men , but utterly programmed and brain - dead . I resisted asking any questions that would have required either of them to think . It would have been too painful to watch . Has anyone read the letter purportedly from Ahmadinejad to George Bush ? http://www.thetruthseeker.co.uk/article.asp?id=4503 I do n't know if this has been verified . But succintly making point after succint point , the text of the letter stands on its own merit , regardless . I like to imagine the thought processes going on in W 's head if he were to actually read the letter , but it is hard to picture him actually reading this letter . As I read the letter , I considered the vast contrast between mind and morality of whoever wrote it , vs. that of the mind of the man who once said " Bring it on ! " America , your condition is dire , dark and deep . Of the metal music farce , Ministry has definately made in - road into ' Loose Change " - " Alex Jones " territory with their new record , Rio Grande Blood . Important Kos Diary about bush 's response to the gathering storm of scandals : http://www.dailykos.com/story/2006/5/12/232746/857 = Executive Orders - very creepy , very scary They have been accumulating for years , and basically give the president to sieze the government whenever he feels like it . But who would do a thing like that .... hey wait a minute == Why did Bush revoke Executive Order 13011 today ? by exmearden Fri May 12 , 2006 at 08:27:46 PM PDT In scanning the whitehouse.gov site today , I noticed the following Executive Order : Executive Order : Amendments to Executive Orders 11030 , 13279 , 13339 , 13381 , and 13389 , and *** Revocation *** of Executive Order 13011 .... I ca n't believe there are no serious metal fans who frequent RI . I 'm wary of jumping into this fray without backup , that 's for damn sure . :) I 'm a regular poster but for some reason blogger wo n't let me in today ... but sign me TroubleFunk . Tronicus : Simply , the questions permeate the entire ' Western ( Mystery ) Tradition ' and perhaps ' Eastern ' as well , as they relate to the confluence of politics and spirituality . For example , is the system of Crowleyan Thelema a failed alchemical process ? Or was it supposed to initially be a process of alchemical appropriation ? Similarly , is invoking ancient Egyptian gods and goddesses a reaffirmation of an oppressive and hierarchical system ? In my opinion , people can no longer afford to partition out and compartmentalize personal spiritual and political systems . The ' high weirdness ' and more hardcore political ' factions ' must perhaps integrate and arrive at a synthesis . In regards to death metal , the problem is , once again , a question of education , history and the vacuous lack of perspective in American culture . Shall we censor the works of poet Charles Baudelaire as well ? Baudelaire was perhaps one of the first ' death metal ' artists . Tronicus , if you 're still checking this thread : A bit of a knee - jerk reaction from me there , and I apologize for my over-generalizations . My real problem is with literalist fundamentalists , of any religion . True believers are dangerous animals . I just get hung up on ' Christians ' , as they 're the dominant form where I come from . Also , I 'm quite clear on the fact that those in power now ( and , in general , most anyone at the top of a pyrimidal power structure ) tend to use the dominant religion as a cloak to hide their true motivations and as a tool to control the masses . It boggles the mind that ANYONE can take at face value Bush 's claims to be a christian , yet many seem to do just that . I seem to remember something about ' by their works shall ye know them . " I do get my hackles up a bit when people haul out the old ' Rock - N - Roll made them do it ' argument . Whie I do n't subscribe to the notion that the things we watch or listen to have no effect on our behavior ( which I think is patently rediculous ) , it does bother me when people single out a specific group of people to pin the blame on . Sub-cultures ( as the lable implies ) do not develope in a vacuum . Again , I think the problem is people who sink to far into their own egos , and begin to take their personal metaphors a bit too literaly . These people are dangerous wether they 're head - banging to ' Canibal Corpse ' or humming along to ' Onward Christian Soldiers ' . ( The mixing of religion and militarism is a whole other topic .... ) I have nothing but respect for people who adhear to non-violence , forgiveness , and charity , but it 's important to remember that Christians ( or ' Smartwolves ' ) do not have a monopoly on that particular lifestyle . Peace . The fact that the US government and media are having a hissy fit over Venezuela wanting to buy guns , and then 200,000 of the guns Chavez wants to buy go missing on their way to Iraq is definitely sus . I guess those guns will be located enroute to Venezuela or found in storage there by one of the US 's local stooges and they then have a pretext to ramp the spin up a notch or two . Thanks again to my friend Nick Keck for passing this along via e-mail . It is the text of a speech given by an Arab gentleman before the advisory board of a large multi-nation corporation . It 's a long but very worthwhile read . " A View from the Eye of the Storm " Talk delivered by Haim Harari at a meeting of the International Advisory Board of a large multi-national corporation , April , 2004 : " As you know , I usually provide the scientific and technological " entertainment " in our meetings , but , on this occasion , our Chairman suggested that I present my own personal view on events in the part of the world from which I come . I have never been and I will never be a Government official and I have no privileged information . My perspective is entirely based on what I see , on what I read and on the fact that my family has lived in this region for almost 200 years . You may regard my views as those of the proverbial taxi driver , which you are supposed to question , when you visit a country . I could have shared with you some fascinating facts and some personal thoughts about the Israeli - Arab conflict . However , I will touch upon it only in passing . I prefer to devote most of my remarks to the broader picture of the region and its place in world events . I refer to the entire area between Pakistan and Morocco , which is predominantly Arab , predominantly Moslem , but includes many non-Arab and also significant non-Moslem minorities . Why do I put aside Israel and its own immediate neighborhood ? Because Israel and any problems related to it , in spite of what you might read or hear in the world media , is not the central issue , and has never been the central issue in the upheaval in the region . Yes , there is a 100 year - old Israeli - Arab conflict , but it is not where the main show is . The millions who died in the Iran - Iraq war had nothing to do with Israel . The mass murder happening right now in Sudan , where the Arab Moslem regime is massacring its black Christian citizens , has nothing to do with Israel . The frequent reports from Algeria about the murders of hundreds of civilians in one village or another by other Algerians have nothing to do with Israel . Saddam Hussein did not invade Kuwait , endanger Saudi Arabia and butcher his own people because of Israel . Egypt did not use poison gas against Yemen in the 60's because of Israel . Assad the Father did not kill tens of thousands of his own citizens in one week in El Hamma in Syria because of Israel . The Taliban control of Afghanistan and the civil war there had nothing to do with Israel . The Libyan blowing up of the Pan - Am flight had nothing to do with Israel , and I could go on and on and on . The root of the trouble is that this entire Moslem region is totally dysfunctional , by any standard of the word , and would have been so even if Israel had joined the Arab league and an independent Palestine had existed for 100 years . The 22 member countries of the Arab league , from Mauritania to the Gulf States , have a total population of 300 millions , larger than the US and almost as large as the EU before its expansion . They have a land area larger than either the US or all of Europe . These 22 countries , with all their oil and natural resources , have a combined GDP smaller than that of Netherlands plus Belgium and equal to half of the GDP of California alone . Within this meager GDP , the gaps between rich and poor are beyond belief and too many of the rich made their money not by succeeding in business , but by being corrupt rulers . The social status of women is far below what it was in the Western World 150 years ago . Human rights are below any reasonable standard , in spite of the grotesque fact that Libya was elected Chair of the UN Human Rights commission . According to a report prepared by a committee of Arab intellectuals and published under the auspices of the U.N. , the number of books translated by the entire Arab world is much smaller than what little Greece alone translates . The total number of scientific publications of 300 million Arabs is less than that of 6 million Israelis . Birth rates in the region are very high , increasing the poverty , the social gaps and the cultural decline . And all of this is happening in a region , which only 30 years ago , was believed to be the next wealthy part of the world , and in a Moslem area , which developed , at some point in history , one of the most advanced cultures in the world . It is fair to say that this creates an unprecedented breeding ground for cruel dictators , terror networks , fanaticism , incitement , suicide murders and general decline . It is also a fact that almost everybody in the region blames this situation on the United States , on Israel , on Western Civilization , on Judaism and Christianity , on anyone and anything , except themselves . A word about the millions of decent , honest , good people who are either devout Moslems or are not very religious but grew up in Moslem families : They are double victims of an outside world , which now develops Islamophobia , and of their own environment which breaks their heart by being totally dysfunctional . The problem is that the vast silent majority of these Moslems are not part of the terror and the incitement , but they also do not stand up against it . They become accomplices , by omission , and this applies to political leaders , intellectuals , business people and many others . Many of them can certainly tell right from wrong , but are afraid to express their views . The events of the last few years have amplified four issues , which have always existed , but have never been as rampant as in the present upheaval in the region . A few more years may pass before everybody acknowledges that it is a World War , but we are already well into it . These are the four main pillars of the current World Conflict , or perhaps we should already refer to it as " the undeclared World War III " : * 1 . The first element is the suicide murder . * Suicide murders are not a new invention but they have been made popular , if I may use this expression , only lately . Even after September 11 , it seems that most of the Western World does not yet understand this weapon . It is a very potent psychological weapon . Its real direct impact is relatively minor . The total number of casualties from hundreds of suicide murders within Israel in the last three years is much smaller than those due to car accidents . September 11 was quantitatively much less lethal than many earthquakes More people die from AIDS in one day in Africa than all the Russians who died in the hands of Chechnya - based Moslem suicide murderers since that conflict started . Saddam killed every month more people than all those who died from suicide murders since the Coalition occupation of Iraq . So what is all the fuss about suicide killings ? It creates headlines . It is spectacular . It is frightening . It is a very cruel death with bodies dismembered and horrible severe lifelong injuries to many of the wounded . It is always shown on television in great detail . One such murder , with the help of hysterical media coverage , can destroy the tourism industry of a country for quite a while , as it did in Bali and in Turkey . But the real fear comes from the undisputed fact that no defense and no preventive measures can succeed against a determined suicide murderer . This has not yet penetrated the thinking of the Western World . The U.S. and Europe are constantly improving their defense against the last murder , not the next one . We may arrange for the best airport security in the world . But if you want to murder by suicide , you do not have to board a plane in order to explode yourself and kill many people . Who could stop a suicide murder in the midst of the crowded line waiting to be checked by the airport metal detector ? How about the lines to the check - in counters in a busy travel period ? Put a metal detector in front of every train station in Spain and the terrorists will get the buses . Protect the buses and they will explode in movie theaters , concert halls , supermarkets , shopping malls , schools and hospitals . Put guards in front of every concert hall and there will always be a line of people to be checked by the guards and this line will be the target , not to speak of killing the guards themselves . You can somewhat reduce your vulnerability by preventive and defensive measures and by strict border controls but not eliminate it and definitely not win the war in a defensive way . And it is a war ! What is behind the suicide murders ? Money is , money and power and cold - blooded murderous incitement , nothing else . It has nothing to do with true fanatic religious beliefs . No Moslem preacher has ever blown himself up . No son of an Arab politician or religious leader has ever blown himself up . No relative of anyone influential has done it . Would n't you expect some of the religious leaders to do it themselves , or to talk their sons into doing it , if this is truly a supreme act of religious fervor ? Are n't they interested in the benefits of going to Heaven ? Instead , they send outcast women , naive children , retarded people and young incited hotheads . They promise them the delights , mostly sexual , of the next world , and pay their families handsomely after the supreme act is performed and enough innocent people are dead . Suicide murders also have nothing to do with poverty and despair . The poorest region in the world , by far , is Africa . It never happens there . There are numerous desperate people in the world , in different cultures , countries and continents . Desperation does not provide anyone with explosives , reconnaissance and transportation . There was certainly more despair in Saddam 's Iraq than in Paul Bremmer 's Iraq , and no one exploded himself . A suicide murder is simply a horrible , vicious weapon of cruel , inhuman , cynical , well - funded terrorists , with no regard to human life , including the life of their fellow countrymen , but with very high regard to their own affluent well - being and their hunger for power . The only way to fight this new " popular " weapon is identical to the only way in which you fight organized crime or pirates on the high seas : the offensive way . Like in the case of organized crime , it is crucial that the forces on the offensive be united and it is crucial to reach the top of the crime pyramid . You can not eliminate organized crime by arresting the little drug dealer on the street corner . You must go after the head of the " Family " . If part of the public supports it , others tolerate it , many are afraid of it and some try to explain it away by poverty or by a miserable childhood , organized crime will thrive and so will terrorism . The United States understands this now , after September 11 . Russia is beginning to understand it . Turkey understands it well . I am very much afraid that most of Europe still does not understand it . Unfortunately , it seems that Europe will understand it only after suicide murders arrive in Europe in a big way . In my humble opinion , this will definitely happen . The Spanish trains and the Istanbul bombings are only the beginning . The unity of the Civilized World in fighting this horror is absolutely indispensable . Until Europe wakes up , this unity will not be achieved . * 2 . The second ingredient is words , more precisely lies . * Words can be lethal . They kill people . It is often said that politicians , diplomats and perhaps also lawyers and business people must sometimes lie , as part of their professional life . But the norms of politics and diplomacy are childish , in comparison with the level of incitement and total absolute deliberate fabrications , which have reached new heights in the region we are talking about . An incredible number of people in the Arab world believe that September 11 never happened , or was an American provocation or , even better , a Jewish plot . You all remember the Iraqi Minister of Information , Mr. Mouhamad Said al - Sahaf and his press conferences when the US forces were already inside Baghdad . Disinformation at time of war is an accepted tactic . But to stand , day after day , and to make such preposterous statements , known to everybody to be lies , without even being ridiculed in your own milieu , can only happen in this region . Mr. Sahaf eventually became a popular icon as a court jester , but this did not stop some allegedly respectable newspapers from giving him equal time . It also does not prevent the Western press from giving credence , every day , even now , to similar liars . After all , if you want to be an anti-Semite , there are subtle ways of doing it . You do not have to claim that the holocaust never happened , and that the Jewish temple in Jerusalem never existed . But millions of Moslems are told by their leaders that this is the case . When these same leaders make other statements , the Western media report them as if they could be true . It is a daily occurrence that the same people who finance , arm and dispatch suicide murderers , condemn the act in English in front of western TV cameras , talking to a world audience , which even partly believes them . It is a daily routine to hear the same leader making opposite statements in Arabic to his people and in English to the rest of the world . Incitement by Arab TV , accompanied by horror pictures of mutilated bodies , has become a powerful weapon of those who lie , distort and want to destroy everything . Little children are raised on deep hatred and on admiration of so - called martyrs , and the Western World does not notice it because its own TV sets are mostly tuned to soap operas and game shows . I recommend to you , even though most of you do not understand Arabic , to watch Al Jazeera , from time to time . You will not believe your own eyes . But words also work in other ways , more subtle . A demonstration in Berlin , carrying banners supporting Saddam 's regime and featuring three - year old babies dressed as suicide murderers , is defined by the press and by political leaders as a " peace demonstration " . You may support or oppose the Iraq war , but to refer to fans of Saddam , Arafat or Bin Laden as peace activists is a bit too much . A woman walks into an Israeli restaurant in mid-day , eats , observes families with old people and children eating their lunch in the adjacent tables and pays the bill . She then blows herself up , killing 20 people , including many children , with heads and arms rolling around in the restaurant . She is called " martyr " by several Arab leaders and called " activist " by the European press . Dignitaries condemn the act but visit her bereaved family and the money flows . There is a new game in town : The actual murderer is called " the military wing " , the one who pays him , equips him and sends him is now called " the political wing " and the head of the operation is called the " spiritual leader " . There are numerous other examples of such Orwellian nomenclature , used every day not only by terror chiefs but also by Western media . These words are much more dangerous than many people realize . They provide an emotional infrastructure for atrocities . It was Joseph Goebbels who said that if you repeat a lie often enough , people will believe it . He is now being outperformed by his successors . * 3 . The third aspect is money . * Huge amounts of money , which could have solved many social problems in this dysfunctional part of the world , are channeled into three concentric spheres supporting death and murder . In the inner circle are the terrorists themselves . The money funds their travel , explosives , hideouts and permanent search for soft vulnerable targets . The inner circles are primarily financed by terrorist states like Iran and Syria , until recently also by Iraq and Libya and earlier also by some of the Communist regimes . These states , as well as the Palestinian Authority , are the safe havens of the wholesale murder vendors . They are surrounded by a second wider circle of direct supporters , planners , commanders , preachers , all of whom make a living , usually a very comfortable living , by serving as terror infrastructure . Finally , we find the third circle of so - called religious , educational and welfare organizations , which actually do some good , feed the hungry and provide some schooling , but brainwash a new generation with hatred , lies and ignorance . This circle operates mostly through mosques , madrasas and other religious establishments but also through inciting electronic and printed media . It is this circle that makes sure that women remain inferior , that democracy is unthinkable and that exposure to the outside world is minimal . It is also that circle that leads the way in blaming everybody outside the Moslem world , for the miseries of the region . The outer circle is largely financed by Saudi Arabia , but also by donations from certain Moslem communities in the United States and Europe and , to a smaller extent , by donations of European Governments to various NGO's and by certain United Nations organizations , whose goals may be noble , but they are infested and exploited by agents of the outer circle . The Saudi regime , of course , will be the next victim of major terror , when the inner circle will explode into the outer circle . The Saudis are beginning to understand it , but they fight the inner circles , while still financing the infrastructure at the outer circle . Figuratively speaking , this outer circle is the guardian , which makes sure that the people look and listen inwards to the inner circle of terror and incitement , rather than to the world outside . Some parts of this same outer circle actually operate as a result of fear from , or blackmail by , the inner circles . The horrifying added factor is the high birth rate . Half of the population of the Arab world is under the age of 20 , the most receptive age to incitement , guaranteeing two more generations of blind hatred . Some of the leaders of these various circles live very comfortably on their loot . You meet their children in the best private schools in Europe , not in the training camps of suicide murderers . The Jihad " soldiers " join packaged death tours to Iraq and other hotspots , while some of their leaders ski in Switzerland . Mrs. Arafat , who lives in Paris with her daughter , receives tens of thousands of dollars per month from the allegedly bankrupt Palestinian Authority , while a typical local ringleader of the Al - Aksa brigade , reporting to Arafat , receives only a cash payment of a couple of hundred dollars , for performing murders at the retail level . * 4 . The fourth element of the current world conflict is the total breaking of all laws . * The civilized world believes in democracy , the rule of law , including international law , human rights , free speech and free press , among other liberties . There are naive old - fashioned habits such as respecting religious sites and symbols , not using ambulances and hospitals for acts of war , avoiding the mutilation of dead bodies and not using children as human shields or human bombs . Never in history , not even in the Nazi period , was there such total disregard of all of the above as we observe now . Every student of political science debates how you prevent an anti-democratic force from winning a democratic election and abolishing democracy . Other aspects of a civilized society must also have limitations . Can a policeman open fire on someone trying to kill him ? Can a government listen to phone conversations of terrorists and drug dealers ? Does free speech protect you when you shout " fire " in a crowded theater ? Should there be death penalty , for deliberate multiple murders ? These are the old - fashioned dilemmas . But now we have an entire new set . Do you raid a mosque , which serves as a terrorist ammunition storage ? Do you return fire , if you are attacked from a hospital ? Do you storm a church taken over by terrorists who took the priests hostages ? Do you search every ambulance after a few suicide murderers use ambulances to reach their targets ? Do you strip every woman because one pretended to be pregnant and carried a suicide bomb on her belly ? Do you shoot back at someone trying to kill you , standing deliberately behind a group of children ? Do you raid terrorist headquarters , hidden in a mental hospital ? Do you shoot an arch-murderer who deliberately moves from one location to another , always surrounded by children ? All of these happen daily in Iraq and in the Palestinian areas . What do you do ? Well , you do not want to face the dilemma . But it can not be avoided . Suppose , for the sake of discussion , that someone would openly stay in a well - known address in Teheran , hosted by the Iranian Government and financed by it , executing one atrocity after another in Spain or in France , killing hundreds of innocent people , accepting responsibility for the crimes , promising in public TV interviews to do more of the same , while the Government of Iran issues public condemnations of his acts but continues to host him , invite him to official functions and treat him as a great dignitary . I leave it to you as homework to figure out what Spain or France would have done , in such a situation . The problem is that the civilized world is still having illusions about the rule of law in a totally lawless environment . It is trying to play ice hockey by sending a ballerina ice - skater into the ring or to knock out a heavyweight boxer by a chess player . In the same way that no country has a law against cannibals eating its prime minister , because such an act is unthinkable , international law does not address killers shooting from hospitals , mosques and ambulances , while being protected by their Government or society . International law does not know how to handle someone who sends children to throw stones , stands behind them and shoots with immunity and can not be arrested because he is sheltered by a Government . International law does not know how to deal with a leader of murderers who is royally and comfortably hosted by a country , which pretends to condemn his acts or just claims to be too weak to arrest him . The amazing thing is that all of these crooks demand protection under international law , and define all those who attack them as " war criminals , " with some Western media repeating the allegations . The good news is that all of this is temporary , because the evolution of international law has always adapted itself to reality . The punishment for suicide murder should be death or arrest before the murder , not during and not after . After every world war , the rules of international law have changed , and the same will happen after the present one . But during the twilight zone , a lot of harm can be done . The picture I described here is not pretty . What can we do about it ? In the short run , only fight and win . In the long run , only educate the next generation and open it to the world . The inner circles can and must be destroyed by force . The outer circle can not be eliminated by force . Here we need financial starvation of the organizing elite , more power to women , more education , counter-propaganda , boycott whenever feasible and access to Western media , internet and the international scene . Above all , we need a total absolute unity and determination of the civilized world against all three circles of evil . Allow me , for a moment , to depart from my alleged role as a taxi driver and return to science . When you have a malignant tumor , you may remove the tumor itself surgically . You may also starve it by preventing new blood from reaching it from other parts of the body , thereby preventing new " supplies " from expanding the tumor . If you want to be sure , it is best to do both . But before you fight and win , by force or otherwise , you have to realize that you are in a war , and this may take Europe a few more years . In order to win , it is necessary to first eliminate the terrorist regimes , so that no Government in the world will serve as a safe haven for these people . I do not want to comment here on whether the American - led attack on Iraq was justified from the point of view of weapons of mass destruction or any other pre-war argument , but I can look at the post-war map of Western Asia . Now that Afghanistan , Iraq and Libya are out , two and a half terrorist states remain : Iran , Syria and Lebanon , the latter being a Syrian colony . Perhaps Sudan should be added to the list . As a result of the conquest of Afghanistan and Iraq , both Iran and Syria are now totally surrounded by territories unfriendly to them . Iran is encircled by Afghanistan , by the Gulf States , Iraq and the Moslem republics of the former Soviet Union . Syria is surrounded by Turkey , Iraq , Jordan and Israel . This is a significant strategic change and it applies strong pressure on the terrorist countries . It is not surprising that Iran is so active in trying to incite a Shiite uprising in Iraq . I do not know if the American plan was actually to encircle both Iran and Syria , but that is the resulting situation . In my humble opinion , the number one danger to the world today is Iran and its regime . It definitely has ambitions to rule vast areas and to expand in all directions . It has an ideology which claims supremacy over Western culture . It is ruthless . It has proven that it can execute elaborate terrorist acts without leaving too many traces , using Iranian Embassies . It is clearly trying to develop nuclear weapons . Its so - called moderates and conservatives play their own virtuoso version of the " good - cop versus bad - cop " game . Iran sponsors Syrian terrorism , it is certainly behind much of the action in Iraq , it is fully funding the Hezbollah and , through it , the Palestinian Hamas and Islamic Jihad ; it performed acts of terror at least in Europe and in South America and probably also in Uzbekistan and Saudi Arabia and it truly leads a multi-national terror consortium , which includes , as minor players , Syria , Lebanon and certain Shiite elements in Iraq . Nevertheless , most European countries still trade with Iran , try to appease it and refuse to read the clear signals . In order to win the war it is also necessary to dry the financial resources of the terror conglomerate . It is pointless to try to understand the subtle differences between the Sunni terror of Al Qaeda and Hamas and the Shiite terror of Hezbollah , Sadr and other Iranian - inspired enterprises . When it serves their business needs , all of them collaborate beautifully . It is crucial to stop Saudi and other financial support of the outer circle , which is the fertile breeding ground of terror . It is important to monitor all donations from the Western World to Islamic organizations , to monitor the finances of international relief organizations and to react with forceful economic measures to any small sign of financial aid to any of the three circles of terrorism . It is also important to act decisively against the campaign of lies and fabrications and to monitor those Western media who collaborate with it out of naivety , financial interests or ignorance . Above all , never surrender to terror . No one will ever know whether the recent elections in Spain would have yielded a different result , if not for the train bombings a few days earlier . But it really does not matter . What matters is that the terrorists believe that they caused the result and that they won by driving Spain out of Iraq . The Spanish story will surely end up being extremely costly to other European countries , including France , who is now expelling inciting preachers and forbidding veils and including others who sent troops to Iraq . In the long run , Spain itself will pay even more . Is the solution a democratic Arab world ? If by democracy we mean free elections but also free press , free speech , a functioning judicial system , civil liberties , equality to women , free international travel , exposure to international media and ideas , laws against racial incitement and against defamation , and avoidance of lawless behavior regarding hospitals , places of worship and children , then yes , democracy is the solution . If democracy is just free elections , it is likely that the most fanatic regime will be elected , the one whose incitement and fabrications are the most inflammatory . We have seen it already in Algeria and , to a certain extent , in Turkey . It will happen again , if the ground is not prepared very carefully . On the other hand , a certain transition democracy , as in Jordan , may be a better temporary solution , paving the way for the real thing , perhaps in the same way that an immediate sudden democracy did not work in Russia and would not have worked in China . I have no doubt that the civilized world will prevail . But the longer it takes us to understand the new landscape of this war , the more costly and painful the victory will be . Europe , more than any other region , is the key . Its understandable recoil from wars , following the horrors of World War II , may cost thousands of additional innocent lives , before the tide will turn . " Zawahiri was associated with a faction of the Egyptian Islamic Jihad known as the Vanguards of Conquest . Zawahiri and the Vanguards of Conquest were seeking to recreate Mohammed 's taking of mecca by a small band through violent attacks on Egyptian leaders . By 1998 , Zawahiri had determined that the Egyptian Islamic Jihad should focus on its struggle against the United States and hold off on further attacks against the Egyptian regime . A key question is how they acquired the anthrax strain first isolated by the Texas Veterinary Medical Diagnostic Lab in 1980 . According to senior counter terrorism officials , both here and abroad , among the supporters of these militant islamists were people who blended into society and were available to act when another part of the network requested it . Al Qaeda , Anthrax and Ayman : Means , Motive , Modus Operandi and Opportunity Homeland Security In early June 2003 , a Central Intelligence Agency ( " CIA " ) report publicly disclosed that the reason for Mohammed Atta 's and Zacarias Moussaoui 's inquiries into cropdusters was for the contemplated use in dispersing biological agents such as anthrax . An early September 2003 Newsweek article included a rumor by a Taliban source that at a meeting in April 2003 Bin Laden was planning an " unbelievable " biological attack , the plans for which had suffered a setback upon the arrest of Khalid Shaikh Mohammed ( " KSM " ) . He had been captured the previous month in Rawalpindi , Pakistan . In November 2003 , a report by a UN Panel of experts concluded that Al Qaeda is determined to use chemical and biological weapons and is restrained only by technical difficulties . In a statement issued June 16 , 2004 , the 9/11 Commission Staff concluded that " Al Qaeda had an ambitious biological weapons program and was making advances in its ability to produce anthrax prior to September 11 . According to Director of Central Intelligence George Tenet , al Qaeda ’s ability to conduct an anthrax attack is one of the most immediate threats the United States is likely to face . " On August 9 , 2004 , it was announced that in the Spring of 2001 , a man named El - Shukrijumah , also known as Jafar the Pilot , who was part of a " second wave , " had been casing New York City helicopters . Photographs from a seized computer disc included the controls and the locks on the door between the passengers and pilot . In a bulletin , the FBI noted that the surveillance might relate to a plot to disperse a chemical or biological weapon . The CIA reportedly has been quietly building a case that the anthrax mailings were an international plot . This is old news . It 's just no longer bureaucratically impolite to openly contest the FBI 's ( former ) theory about a lone , American scientist . Many people have argued that a US - based Al Qaeda operative is behind the earlier Fall 2001 anthrax mailings in the US , and that the mailings served as a threat and warning . Princeton islamist scholar Bernard Lewis has explained that while islamists may disagree about whether killing innocents is sanctioned by the laws of jihad , extremists like Zawahiri agree that notice must be given before biochemical weapons are used . " The Prophet 's guidance , " says Michael Scheuer , an al - Qaeda analyst who recently retired from the CIA and once headed its Bin Laden unit , " was always , Before you attack someone , warn them very clearly ... " The anthrax mailings followed the pattern of letters they sent in January 1997 to newspaper branches in Washington , D.C. and New York City , as well as symbolic targets . The letter bombs were sent in connection with the detention of the blind sheik Abdel Rahman and those responsible for the earlier World Trade Center bombing in 1993 . Handwritten notes and files on a laptop seized upon the capture of KSM , Al Qaeda 's # 3 , included a feasible anthrax production plan using a spray dryer and addressed the recruitment of necessary expertise . What your morning paper did not tell you , however , was that the CIA seized a similar disc from Ayman Zawahiri 's right - hand , Ahmed Salama Mabruk , 5 years earlier . The computer disk was confiscated from him during his arrest by the CIA in Azerbaijan and handed over to the Egyptian authorities . Mabruk , at the time , was the head of Jihad 's military operations . There is a risk that observers underestimate the time that Al Qaeda has had to make progress in such recruitment and research and development . Some may still think that even in the final stages of the 9/11 plot , Zacarias Moussaoui was going to fly a 5th plane into the Capitol or White House . Others argue that he was to be part of a second wave of airliners directed to targets on the West Coast . There is an e-mail by Moussaoui , however , dated July 31 , 2001 indicating that he sought to take a crop dusting course that was to last up to 6 months . In March 2003 , Mohammed reportedly said that Moussaoui was not going to be part of 9/11 but was to be part of a " second wave . " Although Ramzi Binalshibh provided him $ 14,000 in July , accused September 11 conspirator Zacarias Moussaoui told his trial judge that he had an al Qaeda mission that would have come after the terrorist attacks . KSM explained that Moussaoui 's inquiries about crop dusters may have been related to the anthrax work being done by US - trained biochemist and Al Qaeda operative , Malaysian Yazid Sufaat . Zacarias Moussaoui , never the sharpest tool in the shed and thought by his superiors to be unreliable , has told the judge at his trial in a filing that he wants " anthrax for Jew sympathizer only . " Al Qaeda 's regional operative , Hambali , who was at a key January 2000 meeting and supervised Sufaat , has been captured . Hambali reportedly is cooperating to some degree . KSM and Hambali sent al - Hindi ( al - Britani ) , along with Jafar the Pilot , to case NYC targets for a second wave . It was as part of that surveillance in early 2001 that Jafar the Pilot studied tourist helicopters in the NYC area . Sufaat , according to both KSM and Hambali , did not have the virulent US Army Ames strain that would be used . That would require someone who had access to the strain . But if experience is any guide , nothing would stand in the way of Dr. Ayman Zawahiri 's decade - long quest to weaponize and use anthrax against US targets that was described by one confidante to an Egyptian newspaper reporter . The islamist had been released from Egyptian prison and had known Zawahiri well for many years . Emails from Zawahiri to Atef in the Spring of 1999 indicate that Ayman was a close student of the USAMRIID anthrax program . He believed that the koran instructed that a jihadist should use the weapons used by the crusader . " What we know is that he 's always said it was a religious obligation to have the same weapons as their enemies , " former CIA OBL unit counter terrorism chief Michael Scheuer has said . The Wall Street Journal reported that a computer used by Zawahiri contains a June 1999 memo that " said the program should seek cover and talent in educational institutions , which it said were ' more beneficial to us and allow easy access to specialists , which will greatly benefit us in the first stage , God willing . ' '' Zawahiri was associated with a faction of the Egyptian Islamic Jihad known as the Vanguards of Conquest . Zawahiri and the Vanguards of Conquest were seeking to recreate Mohammed 's taking of mecca by a small band through violent attacks on Egyptian leaders . By 1998 , Zawahiri had determined that the Egyptian Islamic Jihad should focus on its struggle against the United States and hold off on further attacks against the Egyptian regime . A key question is how they acquired the anthrax strain first isolated by the Texas Veterinary Medical Diagnostic Lab in 1980 . According to senior counter terrorism officials , both here and abroad , among the supporters of these militant islamists were people who blended into society and were available to act when another part of the network requested it . A few days before Christmas 2003 , after a renewed audiotape threat by Zawahiri of attacks , to include in the US homeland , the threat level was raised to orange or " high . " After the alert condition had long since returned to yellow , Zawahiri in late February issued another audiotape . He urged the President that brigades and brigades would be coming under the banner of jihad carrying death and seeking paradise . Zawahiri said that the US should expect another 9/11 on US soil . According to some reports , Zawahiri is thought by intelligence to be somewhere near the border of Pakistan and Afghanistan . At one time , some thought he had been spotted in Iran . Wherever he is , authorities need to focus on the traceable connection between him and those he or Atef recruited . In October 2001 , did the FBI profilers know of the draft message Khalid Mohammed had on the seized laptop ( from 1995 ) that was signed " Khalid Sheik Bojinka " ? The letter threatened to use biochemical weapons if the blind sheik was not released . ( Khalid Mohammed 's involvement dates back to Bojinka , as does Hambali 's ) . Use of biochemical weapons as blackmail and threatened retaliation for such detentions was an alternative scenario in the Bojinka planning . In May 2004 , Patrick Hughes , Lieutenant General ( Retired ) , Assistant Secretary for Information Analysis , Homeland Security Department testified before the 9/11 Commission . He explained that interrogations and other evidence revealed that Al Qaeda wanted to strike the US with a nonconventional weapon , most notably anthrax . The same week , the WTC head testified that while they had not received any briefing on the use of planes , they had taken steps to prepare for an attack using anthrax based on intelligence that had been received . Al Qaeda has had anthrax , the raw seed product in its unweaponized form , since at least 1997 , when it was purchased by Bin Laden through the Moro Islamic Liberation Front ( " Moro Front " or " MILF " ) . Zawahiri , Al Qaeda 's # 2 , is head of Al Qaeda 's biochemical program . The CIA has known of Zawahiri 's plans to use anthrax for a half decade . The confidante and right - hand man of Dr. Ayman Zawahiri admitted that Zawahiri succeeded in obtaining anthrax and intended to use it against US targets . Another senior Al Qaeda member ( a shura or policy - making council member no less ) was working for the Egyptian intelligence services and he confirmed the report in a sworn lengthy confession . Even Zawahiri 's attorney in 1999 said that Bin Laden and Zawahiri were likely to resort to the biological and chemical agents they possessed given the extradition pressure senior Al Qaeda leaders faced . A recently released islamist who had been a close associate of Zawahiri said that Zawahiri spent a decade and had made 15 separate attempts to recruit the necessary expertise to weaponize anthrax in Russia and the Middle East . The US Army recipe was not used , and obtaining the unprocessed Ames strain of anthrax used does not warrant the weight given it by some press accounts . There was lax control over the distribution of the Ames strain that was used , especially in light of the fact that transfers were not even required to be recorded prior to 1997 . Significantly , the individual who isolated it nearly a quarter century ago ( now retired ) , upon being contacted , does not even report that he necessarily sent the only copy of the strain to Ft. Detrick . Senator Patrick Leahy at a Congressional hearing in the Spring of 2002 noted that the FBI had collected the Ames strain from 20 sources . In Fall 2004 , MSNBC , relying on an unnamed FBI spokesperson , reports that the FBI has narrowed the pool of labs known to have had Ames that was a match from 16 to 4 but can not rule out that it was made overseas . Al Qaeda 's anthrax production plans on Khalid Mohammed 's computer did not evidence knowledge of advanced techniques in the most efficient biological weapons . At least according to the public comments by bioweaponeer experts William Patrick and Kenneth Alibek , under the optimal method , there is no electrostatic charge . In the case of the anthrax used in the mailings , there was an electrostatic charge . Although there was a dominance of single spores and a trillion spore concentration , there were clumps as large as 40 - 100 microns . ( Spores must be no bigger than 5 microns to be inhalable . ) Many point to the trillion spore concentration as extraordinary . It is far simpler , however , to achieve a trillion spore concentration in the production of a few grams than in industrial processing typical of a state sponsored lab . The " trillion spore " issue was at the heart of a lot of mistaken theories of the matter concluding that state sponsorship was necessarily indicated . The reported finding at Dugway undermines the argument of both the " bomb Iraq " crowd and the liberals focused on Dr. Steve Hatfill who object to US biodefense research because they view it as being useful for offensive purposes . USDA employee Johnelle Bryant first told us , in sensational detail , of Atta 's inquiries about purchasing and retrofitting a cropduster . Khalid Mohammed then told interrogators that Zacarias Moussaoui 's inquiries about crop dusting may have related to Yazid Sufaat 's anthrax manufacturing plans . Although the details of the documents on Mohammed 's computer may ( or may not ) point to possible difficulties in aerial dispersal , they are fully consistent with the product used in the anthrax mailings . Al Qaeda had both the means and opportunity . US - trained Malaysian biochemist Yazid Sufaat met with 9/11 plotters and two hijackers in January 2000 . Sufaat was a member of Al Qaeda and a member of Jemaah Islamiah ( " JI " ) . JI has ties with the Moro Front . Sufaat used his company called Green Laboratory Medicine to buy items useful to Al Qaeda . ( Green symbolizes " Islam " and Prophet Mohammed 's holy war ) . Zacarias Moussaoui , who had a crop dusting manual when he was arrested , stayed at Sufaat 's condominium in 2000 when he was trying to arrange for flight lessons in Malaysia . Yazid Sufaat provided Moussaoui with a letter indicating that he was a marketing representative for Infocus Technologies and allegedly provided him $ 35,000 . The crop dusters were to be part of a " second wave . " After 9/11 , Yazid Sufaat traveled to Afghanistan and Pakistan to work for the Taliban Medical Brigade and to continue his work with anthrax . As described in US News , a former reporter from the Kabul Times actually may have met Sufaat , without realizing it , while traveling near Kabul in October 2001 , perceiving him as Filipino . The fellow was carrying papers from Zawahiri and bragging about his ability to manipulate anthrax . Sufaat was arrested in December 2001 upon his return to Malaysia . Newsweek reported that a " second wave " involving biological attacks had been thwarted upon the arrest of Al Qaeda members who had been intended to provide logistical support . Various doctors , both foreign and American , are associated with Al Qaeda leaders or operatives , to include the doctors Abdul Qadoos Khan , a bacteriologist from Rawalpindi and Aafia Siddiqui , PhD , from Karachi . Microbiologist Abdul Qadoos Khan was charged along with his son , Ahmed , for harboring the fugitives . As of March 28 , 2003 , he was in a hospital for a cardiac problem and had been granted " pre-arrest bail . " Yet all you read about at the time was the arrest of the son Ahmed Abdul Qadoos , who receives a stipend from the UN for being officially low - IQ due to lead poisoning . It was Khalid Mohammed who told authorities about Aafia Siddiqui , who has a PhD from Brandeis in neurology . The Pakistani press reported that she was nabbed in Karachi after being spotted at the airport in late March or early April 2003 . If mistaken , how did those reports first come about ? Understandably , Amerithrax is a confidential investigation . The Pakistan ISI and CIA rarely grant press interviews in connection with an ongoing manhunt . The CIA did not even allow the FBI access to KSM for 10 days after his arrest . As agent Van Harp , then head of the Amerithrax investigation said , the information coming from Khalid Mohammed is classified with the authorities releasing only certain limited information . While it 's not easy to separate fact from fiction , Attorney General Ashcroft and Director Mueller have publicly confirmed Aafia is still being sought . They would know . Her mother Ismat last saw Aafia and her grandchildren before they left in a minicab at the end of March . Aafia was on her way with her children to visit and uncle and a friend in Islamabad . According to the Pakistan reports , Aafia Siddiqui was detained after being spotted at Karachi International airport ( after she was followed to a relative 's house ) . ( Karachi is in the south ) . The reports say she is suspected of having been a member of Al Qaeda 's " Chemical Wire Group . " The family 's lawyer advises me that Aafia did not have enough money to pay for airfare tickets for herself and the kids and called Ismat from the train station . That was the last Ismat heard from her . Aafia never reached the uncle 's house . Perhaps something got lost in the translation , but the phrase " Chemical Wire Group " has appeared in all the english Pakistan and India papers . The family 's attorney advises me that Aafia had no knowledge of chemicals ( and that would not appear to be her training ) . There still is a very hot pursuit of the " Atta - level " Floridian , Adnan El Shukrijumah , who Siddiqui is thought to have known and been assisting . His nickname is " Jafar the Pilot . " A senior DOJ official reports that Adnan has experience as a commercial pilot . He is said by one FBI agent to be " very , very , very " dangerous . He allegedly was at one or more meetings in the Summer of 2001 in Pakistan at which KSM and Sufaat were present . He may have been seen in Hamilton , Canada -- along with Egyptian al - Maati , who apparently also has received pilot training . The United States truly no longer has time for faulty analysis or politically - based preconceptions . In early June 2003 , a CIA report concluded that the reason for Atta 's and Zacarias Moussaoui 's inquiries into cropdusters was in fact for the contemplated use in dispersing biological agents such as anthrax . It has long been known Osama Bin Laden was interested in using cropdusters to disperse biological agents ( since the testimony of millennium bomber Ahmed Ressam ) . The hijacker Ahmed Alhaznawi appears to have contracted cutaneous anthrax in Afghanistan . It is reasonable to credit his statement that he got the lesion after bumping into a suitcase he was carrying at a camp in Afghanistan . The lesion is further evidence of Al Qaeda 's anthrax production program at Kandahar . The present evidence relating to Atta 's alleged travel to Prague does not warrant a conclusion that Al Qaeda obtained the Ames strain from Iraq . Iraq , however , remains a possible source of the Ames . Former Russian bioweaponeer Ken Alibek has said that a key Russian scientist assisted Iraq and that Russia had the Ames strain . ( His conclusion may have been based on the fake mobile biolab plans foisted upon the US by the Chalabi associate " Curveball " , which Alibek divined to be identical to Russian mobile lab design ) . Zawahiri did travel to Baghdad in 1998 with an entourage to attend the birthday party of Saddam 's son . The papers found at headquarters of the Mukhabarat , Iraq 's secret police , show that an entourage from Al Qaeda group was sent to the Iraqi capital in March 1998 from Sudan . According to at least some reports , Bin Laden rejected the suggestion of a closer alliance -- preferring to pursue his own concept of jihad . Two top Iraqi scientists , code named Charlie and Alpha , are helping the coalition to learn more about Iraqi 's anthrax program , according to Dr. David Kay , head of the Iraq survey group in charge of the hunt for WMD . He has said that the Iraqis made surprising innovations in the milling and drying processes needed to weaponize anthrax . The media coverage has been seriously confused on the issue of motive and the reason Senators Daschle and Leahy would have been targeted -- tending to simplistically view them as " liberals . " Zawahiri likely targeted Senators Daschle and Leahy to receive anthrax letters , in addition to various media outlets , because of the appropriations made pursuant to the " Leahy Law " to military and security forces . That money has prevented the militant islamists from achieving their goals . Al Qaeda members and sympathizers feel that the FBI 's involvement in countries like Egypt , Saudi Arabia , Pakistan , Indonesia , and the Philippines interferes with the sovereignty of those countries . According to a post she made on the internet , Aafia Siddiqui expressed the same sentiment in connection with US appropriations sought in exchange for the extradition of WTC 1993 plotter Ramzi Yousef from Pakistan . Senator Leahy was Chairman of both the Judiciary Committee overseeing the FBI and Appropriations Subcommittee in charge of foreign aid to these countries . In late September 2001 , it was announced that the President was seeking a blanket waiver that would lift all restrictions on aid to military and security units in connection with pursuing the militant islamists . This extradition and imprisonment of Al Qaeda leaders , along with US support for Israel and the Mubarak government in Egypt , remains foremost in the mind of Dr. Zawahiri . At the height of the development of his biological weapons program , his brother was extradited pursuant to a death sentence in the " Albanian returnees " case ( now he faces retrial ) . It 's hard to keep up with the stories about billion dollar appropriations , debt forgiveness , and loan guarantees to countries like Egypt and Israel and now even Pakistan . Those appropriations pale in comparison to the many tens of billions in appropriations relating to the invasion of Iraq . Al Qaeda had a motive in mind . In his Fall 2001 book titled Knights under the Banner of the Prophet , Zawahiri argued that the secular press was telling " lies " about the militant islamists -- to include the suggestion that the militant islamists were somehow the creation of the United States in connection with expelling the Russians from Afghanistan . Zawahiri argued instead that they have been active since the assassination of Anwar Sadat in Egypt because of the Camp David Accord and the resulting peace treaty between Egypt and Israel . The anthrax letters were sent on the date of the Camp David Accord and then the date Anwar Sadat was assassinated as if to underscore the point to anyone paying attention . Most of the " talking heads " on television , however , knew only that Daschle and Leahy were liberal democrats and did not know anything of Al Qaeda beyond what they read in the US newspapers . The FBI 's profile includes a US - based supporter of the militant islamists . Attorney General Ashcroft explained that an " either - or " approach is not useful . The media has tended to overlook the fact that when the FBI uses the word " domestic " the word includes a US - based , highly - educated supporter of the militant islamists . There is an emerging consensus that anthrax was contained in a letter to AMI , the publisher of the National Enquirer -- in a goofy love letter to Jennifer Lopez enclosing a Star of David and proposing marriage . A report by the Center for Disease Control of interviews with AMI employees ( as well as detailed interviews by author Leonard Cole ) supports the conclusion that there were not one , but two , such mailings containing anthrax . ( The letters were to different AMI publications -- one to the National Enquirer and another to The Sun ) . ( News assistant Bobby Bender recalls the letter containing the items to have been addressed to The Sun . ) This tactic of letters is not merely the modus operandi of these militant islamists inspired by Zawahiri , it is their signature . The islamists sent letter bombs in January 1997 to newspaper offices in New York City and Washington , D.C. . They were sent in connection with the earlier bombing of the World Trade Center and the imprisonment of the blind sheik , Sheik Abdel Rahman . The former leader of the Egyptian Al - Gamaa al - Islamiya ( " Islamic Group " ) , he was also a spiritual leader of Al Qaeda . The letter bombs were sent in connection with the treatment of the Egyptian islamists imprisoned for the earlier attack on the WTC and a related plot . The purpose of the letter bombs -- which resulted in minimal casualty -- was to send a message . ( There initially was an outstanding $ 2 million reward -- under the rewards for justice program , the reward now is up to $ 5 million . ) . There was no claim of responsibility . There was no explanation . Once one had been received , the next ten , mailed on two separate dates , were easily collected . Sound familiar ? Two bombs were also sent to Leavenworth , where a key WTC 1993 defendant was imprisoned , addressed to " Parole Officer . " ( The position does not exist ) . Abdel Rahman 's son was captured in Quetta , Pakistan in mid-February 2003 . That arrest in turn led to the dramatic capture of Khalid Mohammed , Al Qaeda 's # 3 . Mohammed allegedly was hiding in the home of the Pakistani bacteriologist Dr. Abdul Qadoos Khan . Along with Zawahiri , Abdel Rahman and his two sons have had considerable influence over Bin Laden . He reportedly treated them like sons . Although while in jail in the early 1980s , Zawahiri caused considerable tension by challenging the blind sheik 's ability to lead a coalition of the Egyptian Islamic Jihad and the Egyptian Islamic Group , Zawahiri and OBL are Rahman 's friends . The imprisoned WTC 1993 plotter Yousef was KSM 's nephew . Thus , the leaders in charge of Al Qaeda 's anthrax production program had a close connection to those imprisoned in connection with the earlier bombing of the World Trade Center . According to the controversial " Feith memo , " which summarized purported intelligence showing an Iraqi / Al Qaeda connection , Osama Bin Laden had asked Iraqi intelligence for technical assistance in sending letter bombs a half year before the Al Hayat letters were sent . Just because Al Qaeda likes its truck bombs and the like to be effective does not mean they do not see the value in a deadly missive . As Brian Jenkins once said , " terrorism is theater . " A sender purporting to be islamist sent cyanide in both early 2002 and early 2003 in New Zealand and ingredients of nerve gas in Belgium in 2003 . There 's even a chapter titled " Poisonous Letter " in the Al Qaeda manual . The " Federal Eagle " stamp used in the anthrax mailings was a blue - green . It was widely published among the militant islamists that martyrs go to paradise " in the hearts of green birds . " In the very interview in which they admitted 9/11 , and described the codes used for the four targets for the planes , the masterminds admitted to the Jenny code , the code for representing the date 9/11 , and used the symbolism of the " Green Birds . " Osama Bin Laden later invoked the symbolism in his video " The 19 Martyrs . " A FAQ on the Azzam Publications website explained that " In the Hearts of Green Birds " refers to what is inside . The mailer 's use of " Greendale School " as the return address for the letters to the Senators is also revealing . A May 2001 letter that Zawahiri sent to Egyptian Islamic Jihad members abroad establish that Zawahiri used " school " as a code word for the Egyptian militant islamists in his correspondence . Green symbolizes Islam and was the Prophet Mohammed 's color . By Greendale School , the anthrax perp was being cute , just as Yazid Sufaat was being cute in naming his lab Green Laboratory Medicine . " Dale " means " river valley . " Greendale likely refers to green river valley -- i.e. , Cairo 's Egyptian Islamic Jihad or the Islamic Group . The sender probably is announcing that he is of either Egyptian Islamic Jihad , Egyptian Islamic Group or Jihad - al Qaeda , which is actually the full name of the group after the merger of the Egyptian Islamic Jihad and al Qaeda . At the Darunta complex where jihadis trained , recruits would wear green uniforms , except for Friday when they were washed . In a Hadith the Messenger of Allah explains that the souls of the martyrs are in the hearts of green birds that fly wherever they please in the Paradise . As to opportunity , though seldom reported , there is a wealth of " open source " information about possible Al Qaeda or Egyptian Islamic Jihad or Egyptian Islamic Group in the United States and Canada . The public information mostly relates to those suspected sleepers who have been detained or who are at large and are being sought . Zawahiri 's mission in the United States in 1995 was to do spadework for terrorism , not fundraising for charitable causes . He traveled under an alias and was accompanied by a former US Army sergeant named Ali Mohammed . What mosques exactly did they visit and who did they meet ? Whatever your political persuasion , the FBI and CIA deserve our support . We are , after all , in this together . First , the nature of such an investigation is that we lack sufficient information to second - guess ( or even know ) what the FBI is doing . Media reports are a poor approximation of reality because of the lack of good sources . Second , hindsight is 20 / 20 . Third , with the " new age " Efrem Zimbalist , Jr. in charge of the investigation , it is not likely we could do better in striking the appropriate balance between due process and national security . Finally , the " Hatfill theory " seems to have been exhausted or at least lost public favor . The " Hatfill theory " accusing Dr. Stephen Hatfill was always highly dubious . The suspicion was founded on many false premises , and there was no reliable publicly known evidence indicating his guilt . The FBI 's fixation on Hatfill ( at least as rumored by some reporters ) may have stemmed from a warning by one Senator that careers hung in the balance . Leahy 's chief of staff apparently started with the strong predisposition that some right - winger was involved because two liberal democrats had been targeted . The Hatfill theory -- to include ongoing interviews and ongoing 7 / 24 surveillance by 8 surveillance specialists -- is now the subject of pending civil rights and libel claims of uncertain merit . A suit against the New York Times and columnist Nicholas Kristof was dismissed in late November 2004 . The judge had agreed to delay the civil rights matter from proceeding until at least October 2004 . The judge , frustrated by the apparent lack of progress , encouraged that the parties reach a negotiated compromise that would permit some limited discovery to proceed ( and the judge has directed that the government to file an Answer to the Complaint ) . The Hatfill Theory ironically might best be understood as an Al Qaeda theory , with a coincidental Malaysian connection adding to the other circumstances . Given the regrettable leaks that he was under suspicion , it is only fair that the FBI leak with equal enthusiasm the fact that Dr. Hatfill has now been dropped as a suspect if and when that proves to be the case . A search of Dr. Ken Berry 's residences likely will prove just about the last gasp of a biodefense insider theory . Senior officials have been quoted in the press as saying that the searches were for the purpose of excluding him as much as including him . Maureen , Andre is going to look over the list of curves needed for the global assets ( August Board meeting ) one more time before I forward it to you . He will make sure that we do not request FX and inflation ( CPI , PPI , etc. ) curves when only one of the curves will actually be used in the valuation process and to determine which inflation index is needed . Typically , we receive both FX and inflation from you , but both curves may not always be used . I hope that we can give you some time savings by eliminating any nonessential requests . For now , this is the list of countries for which we will probably need the FX and / or inflation curves . I will send the specifics per Andre later today . India Philippines Bolivia Jamaica Guatemala Venezuela Columbia Puerto Rico CPI only ( I need historical inflation data , as well ) Panama Brazil we have current data already China we have current data already Euro inflation only I am not certain about the needs for the London Underwriting / IV group but will request the information from them if you have not done so already . Thanks ! Cindy David and Cindy , Please send us the list of the curves that you will need to revalue our international assets for the August Board meeting . Thanks , Maureen Philip , I have to decline the invitation with regrets . I have too many commitments right now . Vince Kaminski Dear Vince Just a quick message to follow up on the email that I sent you recently inviting you to speak at our forthcoming congress , Risk 2001 Australia , which is taking place in Sydney on 20 & 21 August 2001 . Have you had an opportunity to consider the invitation yet ? We are aiming to have the programme printed next week , so I would really need to know as soon as possible if you would be available to speak at this year 's congress . I am working from our Hong Kong office for this week only ( Tel : +852 2545 2710 ) , and I can be contacted by phone there or by email . Kind regards . Philip Philip Annesley Conference Producer Risk Waters Group +44 20 7484 9866 +44 20 7484 9800 www.risk-conferences.com/risk2001aus Beth has made our reservations for the Round Table Friday night ( 5/18 ) at Sullivan 's Steak House for 6:30 . See you all there - this is ling overdue Paula Paula , Thanks a lot . Will you drive on that day ? Vince Beth has made our reservations for the Round Table Friday night ( 5/18 ) at Sullivan 's Steak House for 6:30 . See you all there - this is ling overdue Paula FYI Vince Anne , Mike will call you regarding Sarah . Vince , As I mentioned in my voice mail , Mike Roberts going to hire Sara Woody , a recent MBA grad from Rice , into his group . However , when we were talking about this position , Mike compared Sara to Elena . Elena 's title is admin coordinator , and I know that Sara should not have this title , and honestly do not think that Elena should also . Admin coordinator's do primarily administrative work . I suggest that you compare Elena and Sarah 's duties / level to other Sr. Spec. in your group such as Kenneth Parkhill and Sevil to determine if they are equivalent , or if their scope of responsibilities and experience is not as broad . If the latter is the case , we could place both Sara and Elena in a specialist job group ( the salary range is 33 - 66 K ) . Please advise . Thanks , Anne Clayton , Thanks a lot . I appreciate all your help . Vince Vince - Good news . Martin 's box is working wonderfully - I 'll have everything transferred to it and give him the keys by Friday . This was ( another ) nice deal for Enron . We save $ 21,000 in real money this way , the cash refund Sun is giving Enron for our other server , using a box that was n't being used by anyone . I 'm happy about this . Clayton Iris , Congratulations . Anne , please , include this info in Iris ' file Vince Michael : Thanks for putting the paperwork together . I would have interest in meeting if you can present unique investment opportunities that I do n't have access to now . Most of my contact with financial advisors in the past has consisted of them suggesting a mutual fund , telling me to invest in Home Depot , Sun , and Coke , or trying to pass off their banks ' biased research reports as something valuable . The above services provide no value to me personally . If you can present opportunities such as access to private equity or hedge funds , or other ideas with strong growth potential and low correlation to the S@P , I 'd listen . John John - We 'll get the paperwork together and sent to you for naked options . At some point , I 'd like to talk about the diversification strategy in more detail -- perhaps over dinner or a quick meeting after the markets close ? Michael Gapinski Account Vice President Emery Financial Group PaineWebber , Inc. 713-654-0365 800-553-3119 x365 Fax : 713-654-1281 Cell : 281-435-0295 Michael : Appreciate the idea . However , with my natural long , I 'm not looking to really trade around the position . I believe ENE will continue to be range bound , but in case it is not , I do n't want to forgo 50 % of my option premium . I have price targets of where I would like to lighten up exposure to ENE and will use calls to implement the stategy . To that regards , I noticed I was not approved to sell naked calls . I would like that ability in order to hedge some exposure I have of unexercised vested options . Please look into that for me . John . John - I was looking at the recent pullback in ENE and thinking it might be an opportunity to buy back the calls you sold . Of course , you would then be in a position to sell calls again if the stock makes a bounce . I 'm not sure that ENE @ 75 is the place , but maybe @ 73 . Call me if you 're interested . Michael Gapinski Account Vice President Emery Financial Group PaineWebber , Inc. 713-654-0365 800-553-3119 x365 Fax : 713-654-1281 Cell : 281-435-0295 Notice Regarding Entry of Orders and Instructions : Please do not transmit orders and / or instructions regarding your PaineWebber account ( s ) by e-mail . Orders and / or instructions transmitted by e-mail will not be accepted by PaineWebber and PaineWebber will not be responsible for carrying out such orders and / or instructions . Notice Regarding Privacy and Confidentiality : PaineWebber reserves the right to monitor and review the content of all e-mail communications sent and / or received by its employees . Notice Regarding Entry of Orders and Instructions : Please do not transmit orders and / or instructions regarding your PaineWebber account ( s ) by e-mail . Orders and / or instructions transmitted by e-mail will not be accepted by PaineWebber and PaineWebber will not be responsible for carrying out such orders and / or instructions . Notice Regarding Privacy and Confidentiality : PaineWebber reserves the right to monitor and review the content of all e-mail communications sent and / or received by its employees . Notice Regarding Entry of Orders and Instructions : Please do not transmit orders and / or instructions regarding your PaineWebber account ( s ) by e-mail . Orders and / or instructions transmitted by e-mail will not be accepted by PaineWebber and PaineWebber will not be responsible for carrying out such orders and / or instructions . Notice Regarding Privacy and Confidentiality : PaineWebber reserves the right to monitor and review the content of all e-mail communications sent and / or received by its employees . Who cares ?????? Please note that effective immediately my email address has changed to Sean.Cooper@ElPaso.com He just rescheduled to Wednesday . How about dinner on Wednesday after that ? Your buddy Beau invited me . How about prior to that or after that on Tuesday . not really ... already have plans on thursday . are you going to the NYMEX candidate cocktail hour Tuesday ? oh god is there an agenda . Would dinner Thursday work instead . not really ... already have plans on thursday . are you going to the NYMEX candidate cocktail hour Tuesday ? oh god is there an agenda . Wednesday does n't work for me . How about Tuesday's at 3:30 Houston time . i completely agree . I would like to have a meeting once a week for 1 - 2 hours with all 6 of us just to make sure we are moving forward and to get an update and anything and everything . My only concern is that we take the boys away from their overwhelming task . What do you guys think . John OK . I will have to move my weekly meeting to Tuesday . Monday's starting next week at 4 ??????????????? Wednesday does n't work for me . How about Tuesday's at 3:30 Houston time . i completely agree . I would like to have a meeting once a week for 1 - 2 hours with all 6 of us just to make sure we are moving forward and to get an update and anything and everything . My only concern is that we take the boys away from their overwhelming task . What do you guys think . John Not yet . Did you happen to sign your employment agreement ? Please respond to request below . Thanks . John Lavorato has requested the attached report . He is concerned about the allocation amongst categories - in particular , Real Time Traders . If you would , please review the entire list and let me know if you are in agreement with the presentation by tomorrow evening , if possible . I 'm at x if you have any questions . Thanks ! I understand all of those comparisons , however , the reality is if we lose Dean ( which we will if we do n't pay 65 k + 10 k ) , we will end up hiring a replacement at 75 - 80 k . This is pretty easy math for me . I know it seems like a stretch , but the market for hourly traders is very strong right now . I would like to get this done ASAP . Thanks . I am reviewing the request for an employment agreement renewal on Mark Dean Laurent . Juan communicated some numbers to me and when reviewing this request would like to ask you to consider the following : Current Salary : $ 47,500 Job Group : Specialist YE PRC Rating : Satisfactory Original Proposition : Base Salary 65 k 1 Year Agreement $ 5,000 signing Revised Proposal : Base Salary : 55 k 1 Year agreement $ 5,000 signing Business Case : If we offered Dean 55 k or 60 k it would still constitute a over a $ 10,000 increase ( approximately 25 % ) and taking into consideration he was rated as satisfactory at the specialist level . Also , the top of the salary range for a specialist is 66 k . It would still give him room to progress in the current job group should he not be promoted . Secondly , he will still out price performers that you have in the same job group that are excellent and strong performers respectively eg. Paul Thomas , Jason Choate , Todd DeCook and Peter Makkai . Salary Listing in Job Group : Maria Valdes superior $ 62,500 Paul Thomas excellent $ 55,008 Jason Choate excellent $ 60,008 Todd DeCook strong $ 42,008 Peter Makkai strong $ 47,500 Let me know your thoughts .... then I will run it by Oxley . Are we going to attend ? Transmission Expansion and Systems in Transition Conference Feb. 5 - 8 , 2002 , Miami , Florida OVERVIEW This conference will examine the business and regulatory challenges to U.S. electric systems in transition in effectively expanding transmission capacity to meet new demands in the larger and more competitive regional markets emerging under FERC 's RTO initiatives . The conference will review the parameters of these challenges and possible solutions to them . It will examine technology options and new business models for transmission expansion . It will analyze emerging proposals for effective transmission planning and pricing , including market - based pricing alternatives to FERC 's traditional pricing methods . The conference will also discuss what it will take in legislative action and regulatory initiative to achieve an efficient regime for ensuring that the nation has a reliable grid and regional trading system . The brochure for the Conference and associated Workshops can be obtained by clicking on the link below : < http://www.euci.com/pdf/trans_expn.pdf > << http://www.euci.com/pdf/trans_expn.pdf >> Electricity Market Design Conference March 25 - 26 , 2002 , Atlanta , Georgia I need to check something in 969 's 2000 tax return . Who has the 2000 tax return file for 969 ? Essie Sonya City 07/30/2001 05:17 PM < Embedded Picture ( Device Independent Bitmap ) > I think that this is for you since I do n't know any of these people . WHO : Enron WHAT : Happy Hour for John Suarez WHEN : Today at 5 pm WHERE : The Front Porch 217 Gray St. ( 713 ) 571-9571 WHY : Today is John 's last day at EBS . This is NOT an Enron - sponsored event . How do you feel about taking on another company ? Essie and Leon have proposed xferring Co. 1691 to your world ( see below ) . Do you concur ? Please let me know Monday morning . Regards , Vicsandra If you have not already made these decisions , Essie 's guidance should be helpful . Patty Lee Corporate Tax x35172 EB 1774 Please see my comments in red below . Essie Essie , Can you recommend where these companies each fit within the new organization ? If possible , can you also give an indication of the rank - 1 through 5 ? Thanks , Patty I have a few entities that may need to change groups or be assigned to a group . 18T - EI Indonesia Operations LLC This entity is not in TIS , SAP , nor Hyperion . The 2000 tax return has no income , assets , or liabilities . There is a corporate data sheet for this company , but this entity seems to have been inactive since it 's creation . 86M - Enron Net Works LLC Despite the name , this entity appears to be a MTM company . Per September financials , this company has about $ 3 M of MTM and about $ 8 K of expenses , nothing else . The next 5 companies were my responsibility while in EBS , and did not get assigned during the reorg . 80Y - Enron Broadband Acquisition , Inc . This entity was created in 2000 for the acquistion of WarpSpeed Communications ( now Enron WarpSpeed Services , Inc. 83N ) , and then dissolved upon completion of merger . Company is around with a small amount of assets and liabilities , but no I/S items . 83N is my responsibility . I think this entity should stay with 83N . So I suggest it be assigned to Leon . It should be 4 - easy . 1579 - EBS Network Co. Division of 17H . This one should possibly be assigned to Networks & Services group . Not currently on our list of companies . I think this could go to either Holding / Administrative Companies ( Same as 17H ) or Network & Services ( Leon ) . 4 - easy . 1691 - EPI - EBS Europe Set up last month to centralize merchant asset activities . Broke out the activities of 1179 . A similar entity ( 1179 ) was assigned to Commodity and Trade ( Todd Richards and Mary Fischer ) so this one should be assigned to them as well . 4 - easy . 1307 - EBIC - Apache , LLC Rolls up to Cherokee Finance VOF , a CFC . Cherokee Finance VOF is assigned to North America ( Glen Walloch and Kevin Walker ) . Maybe this one should also go to them as the only tax which may have to be provided would be foreign tax . 4 - easy . 1689 - EPI - EBS Ventures , LLC Set up last month to centralize merchant asset activities . Broke out the activities of 1307 . Same as 1307 . It should be assigned to North America ( Glen Walloch and Kevin Walker ) . 4 - easy . Let me know if you have any questions . Leon Branom Senior Tax Analyst Networks and Services ( 713 ) 345-8702 office leon.branom@enron.com No problem about moving Company 1691 over I see that it is a 4 , so that will be no problem . How do you feel about taking on another company ? Essie and Leon have proposed xferring Co. 1691 to your world ( see below ) . Do you concur ? Please let me know Monday morning . Regards , Vicsandra If you have not already made these decisions , Essie 's guidance should be helpful . Patty Lee Corporate Tax x35172 EB 1774 Please see my comments in red below . Essie Essie , Can you recommend where these companies each fit within the new organization ? If possible , can you also give an indication of the rank - 1 through 5 ? Thanks , Patty Virginia , Hello . I was originally inquiring about purchasing a Cross or Signac impressionist lithograph . I found them and purchased both from a gallery in London , William Weston . They should be delivered this week . They are beautiful and will add a lot to our collection . By the way the Lichtenstein is up and hanging in our formal living room and it is magnificent . I have also purchased an Appel in the last month . I am interested in several artists . Actually , a lot . I will be looking for one or more of the following . My concept is that over time I would like to own one of all the following artists and they are all depending when I find something that we really like . I listed all of our ( sometimes mine vs. my wife 's favorites and priorities ) . They are kind of in rank order but as I stated if I find the piece that I like we will purchase it . I want signed and numbered . I realize that some were not signed by the artist but it is an important fact in my buying decision . I also realize that some may not have done any works on paper or they are outrageously expensive . For example , I would like to know if Rothko or Kline did any work on paper . At least that is what I am thinking now . Bonnard ( colorful only ) Lautrec Suerat ( any works on paper ? - I do n't know that he did any ) Other impressionist or post impressionist lithos Braque Moore Arp Rouault Modrian Rothko Kline Motherwell By the way , I am interested in re-looking at a Picasso ( although we have 2 ) that your gallery had a couple of years ago . It was a cubist piece from the 1920s and I believe you called the technique a " push wa " ( pronunciation Vs an attempt at the proper spelling ) . It was for sale in a couple of galleries in SF and was about $ 20,000 . Is there 1 available ? Also I am still thinking about the Matisse we discussed before but as you can see , I have a lot of other artists I am interested in and it may remain on the back burner because we already have one . Thanks , mike Huskers drool over Sooners . Ken Rice@ENRON COMMUNICATIONS 01/19/2001 09:14 AM Huskers rule , Sooners drool . Mike McConnell@ECT 01/19/01 07:55 AM Thanks for the note . Sooners rule . We 'll find time when things settle down . m Ken Rice@ENRON COMMUNICATIONS 01/19/2001 07:24 AM Mike I see that we are scheduled to have lunch today . I may have to postpone again , I 'll let you know later this morning . I am out all weekend and we have to have the final comments on the Analyst Presentation in by sunday night so I may be working over lunch . Actually , I think we are in pretty good shape so I will probably be doing lunch but just do n't be too mad if I have to cancel . Ken PS Your brother told me he went to 3 bowl games ( when I found out that two of them were the galleryfurniture.com bowl and that one in Shreveport ( I ca n't remember the name of it )) I realized he is a very , very sick college football fan . Jeff , here is the intial draft . Please leave as a word document and make any changes and additions that you think necessary . I have n't even changed the wording after I first put it down . Mike Mark , I thought you would enjoy the comment about you . m Ken Rice@ENRON COMMUNICATIONS 01/19/2001 07:24 AM Mike I see that we are scheduled to have lunch today . I may have to postpone again , I 'll let you know later this morning . I am out all weekend and we have to have the final comments on the Analyst Presentation in by sunday night so I may be working over lunch . Actually , I think we are in pretty good shape so I will probably be doing lunch but just do n't be too mad if I have to cancel . Ken PS Your brother told me he went to 3 bowl games ( when I found out that two of them were the galleryfurniture.com bowl and that one in Shreveport ( I ca n't remember the name of it )) I realized he is a very , very sick college football fan . I will put this on our calendars . Too bad you wo n't make the Compaq thing , but maybe next year . San Antonio , wow what a let down from the other cities . That will be a nice time of year though . I can recommend some good restaurants since I took Ric there last year for his birthday . We stayed at the Menger and had a great time . Kay Mann@ENRON 09/20/2000 04:18 PM This Friday - Michael goes for a visit at St. Francis , which may be his new school ( so far , so good ) . I 'll be in around 1000 Most Fridays I 'm going to TRY to pick Michael up since I 'm away so much , which means leaving by 445 or so . October 4 , ENA orientation in the am . October 19 / 20 , Neil is out of town , so I have to pick Michael up from school ( leave at 430 ) October 26 / 27 , hope to be vacation time . Neil has a meeting in San Antonio ( usually it is in Miami , San Francisco , Phoenix - not so great this year ) . It is the officer 's meeting for Enterprise , and spouses are invited . This means we wo n't be in town for the Compaq thing . Figures , of course . Thanks for asking . I 'm watching for some good vacation days , also ... fyi / review / comment I have a couple of questions so I can wrap up the LOI : We refer to licensed Fuel Cell Energy equipment . Do we intend to reference a particular manufacturer , or should this be more generic ? Do we want to attach a draft of the Development Agreement , and condition the final deal on agreeing to terms substantially the same as what 's in the draft ? I have a concern that the Enron optionality bug could bite us on the backside with that one . Do we expect to have ONE EPC contract , or several ? I 'm looking for the confidentiality agreement , which may be in Bart 's files ( have n't checked closely yet ) . If anyone has it handy , it could speed things up for me . Thanks , Kay Forget the ONE or more contract questions . I see we expect to have separate contracts for each project . I have a couple of questions so I can wrap up the LOI : We refer to licensed Fuel Cell Energy equipment . Do we intend to reference a particular manufacturer , or should this be more generic ? Do we want to attach a draft of the Development Agreement , and condition the final deal on agreeing to terms substantially the same as what 's in the draft ? I have a concern that the Enron optionality bug could bite us on the backside with that one . Do we expect to have ONE EPC contract , or several ? I 'm looking for the confidentiality agreement , which may be in Bart 's files ( have n't checked closely yet ) . If anyone has it handy , it could speed things up for me . Thanks , Kay On the issue of the contracts , the draft says that the $ 170 m is paid when the EPC contract is signed . Are we expecting that the portion attributable to each project will be paid as the individual EPC contracts are signed ? Thanks , Kay 1 . The pricing that we have given CRRA is specific to FuelCell Energy and would not be meaningful without listing the manufacturer ( i.e. , ONSI would be a lot more money ) . Hence , I think that we have to reference the manufacturer . 2 . The attachment of the Development Agreement is a Jeff question . In order to mark any 2000 income , we will need to get CRRA to execute the Development Agreement in 2000 . In my opinion , we should show CRRA a copy of the LOI with the assumption that the Development Agreement is attached . I would actually send them the draft Development Agreement a couple days after the LOI . Based on how CRRA reacts , I would make an ultimate determination if the agreement needs to be attached to the LOI . 3 . I expect at least one EPC contract per project . We do n't want to condition the acceptance of one project on the performance of another project . Performance tests will either be performed on a project basis or a unit by unit basis in a given project . Remarkably clear explanation . Sent by : Ben Jacoby@ECT FYI , see below . Mom 's birthday is tommorow . What are we going to get her ? Chris That is some good stuff . I hear you are coming our way soon . Look forward to drinking a few beers . Chris Michael McDermott < Michael.McDermott@spectrongroup.com > on 06/01/2000 06:00:56 AM Yo Mama `s so fat .... Your mama is so fat : When she hauls ass she has to make two trips . When she dances she makes the band skip . When she was diagnosed with the flesh eating disease the doctor gave her 13 years to live . She puts mayonnaise on aspirin . ( <- clearly the winner ) Her cereal bowl came with a lifeguard . When she goes to the zoo the elephants throw her peanuts . Her high school graduation picture was an aerial photograph . Her driver `s license says " Picture continued on other side . " She has to iron her pants on the driveway . The back of her neck looks like a pack of hot dogs . Yo mama `s so fat , all the restaurants in town have signs that say : " Maximum Occupancy : 240 Patrons OR Yo Mama " Yo mama `s so fat , when she ran away , they had to use all four sides of the milk carton . Yo mama `s so fat , instead of Levis 501 jeans , she wears Levi`s 1002`s . Yo mama `s so fat , when she gets in an elevator , it HAS to go down . Yo mama `s so fat , she was born with a silver shovel in her mouth . Yo mama `s so fat , she `s got smaller fat women orbiting around her . Yo mama `s so fat , she could sell shade . You will have to wait and see :-) Done ! Expect a call from Paul tonight . Chris What are some good interview questions ? Poll your co-workers . cd I told Paul that you called him yesterday so abruptly because you did n't want to waste his time while you got tests done for arthritis . I told him I told you to call him back and at least hear what he has to say . He said they are looking for people and based on what I told him an interview was a formality . Chris Is that Microwave that you gave Dan really expensive ? All the guys at work are saying I should n't bother having it fixed I should just buy a new one . Chris Jai Hawker 974-6721 I wo n't forget about the $ . Do I need to cross reference the deals in my model to the deals in the system or did you already do that ? Chris Kathy , Do n't take that deal out until I look at it . I think it is mine but I forgot to write it in the blue FX book ( I only wrote it in my red book ) . Thanx , Chris Just a reminder to send me a currency report . Thanx , Chris Paul called me today . He will be in Calgary in a couple of weeks and will interview you then . Chris You should reply ASAP . Do n't make Peters and Co. wait . Chris I did n't get a chance to talk to Paul today . Give him a call tommorow . Chris Will you please run a June NX3 / NX1 for our book . Paul How about meeting at 11:30 or 12 ? I am in the office so give me a call . CD 3-1663 The deed is done . Chris Find attached resume and cover letter . Hopefully he did n't spel anyting incorrectly . Dan is really smart and a hard worker . I think he would be a good fit . Give me a call Tuesday afternoon to discuss ( gone to Kelowna golfing for the weekend ) . Cheers , Chris I have n't had a chance to send it yet . Paul is out of the office today so I have n't had a chance to talk to him . I 'll send it as soon as you resond wether I should or not . Chris Are you guys still looking for an analyst ? Should I send the resume to Dawn or you directly ? Chris Enron Canada Corp. Suite 1100 , 70 York Street Toronto , Ontario M5J 1S9 416-865-3700 Paul DeVries - Director 416-865-3703 Jan Wilson - Manager 416-865-3704 Attached is a forecast for the rest of the summer for the X ( NWP and PGT ) . We should try to have a conference call with the west desk to discuss as soon as we can . Chris See you there ! CD Sushi tonight ? Ryan Watt says high . Chris I will be able to attend . Chris Mike Jordan 26/09/2000 14:14 Fernley / Sally Off and on ( with Jackie Gentle 's help ) I have pulled together a one page communication note on our fundamental operating standards ( itself a one page summary ) . We are in the final stages of this process - where we draft a cover letter for John which will introduce this for inclusion within Globalflash ( the Enron Europe newsletter ) Have you any thoughts on draft or cover note ? Mike Late Jan sounds great . Meagan does have a couple of big things on the weekend in January -- National Charity League Senior Presentation ( big dance that she and I are committed to help with ) , the Bearkadette Ball and a winter party for Cotillion . I believe that these are three weekends in a row , January 6 , 13 and 20th . So the last weekend in January would work well ( and I will need a rest from formal affairs ! ) . Does that work for you ? And do you want to do it on a Saturday or Sunday ? Saturday probably works better for me , just so that I am back in Houston and doing laundry by Sunday afternoon !! Hi ... Talked to the little mother - to - be . She said a shower would be grand . She has some big presentation mid-January . How does late January sound to you . Should we set a date now ? Am I turning into Mother ? Cindy I think that it is a great idea to get some press regarding our fundamental operating standards , but I wonder about the most appropriate timing , enough of a global message and the means of delivery . On the means of delivery , I am not sure from your note whether or not I fully understand the intent . Is there an article to be included in an Enron publication and in addition a letter to be sent under John 's name ( if so , to whom will the letter be sent ) ? Or is the letter from John an introduction to be included as a lead in to the article ? With regard to a global message , I think that one of the key points around fundamental operating standards are that they are intended to be global in nature , applied to every commodity and every location where we engage in trading activities . With these operating standards implemented worldwide , we will know as operations professionals that risk is being mitigated and we will be able to ensure Enron top management that there is consistency in operating standards worldwide . These global standards also should enable Enron to expand its business reach more quickly , with well defined requirements with regard to trading operations . I am not sure from the article as written that the global nature of this effort comes across . Finally , a question regarding timing . The last I knew after you and Brent drafted this starting point for fundamental operating standards was that this was being circulated ( Shona took this to do after Brent 's return to Houston ) for comments to all business controllers . I do n't believe that we are quite at the point that we can say that all business controllers worldwide have reviewed , understand and have implemented these standards . And not to belittle the process of creating the standards , the tough part ( and the real meat behind this ) will be an effective exception report on a global basis against these standards . My commitment to Rick Causey is that I will have that global report in production by the end of the year . There is much work to do in defining the content and regularity of the report and even more work to do to identify reliable sources of data for compiling the report . Shona has commissioned Mike Moscoso to work on this , and I believe that Mike has already been working with James New . So I question whether or not you want to publish info about fundamental standards that we can not yet report against . Would a more appropriate time be after the Global Operations Controller meeting in October when we should have worldwide buy - in and commitment to these standards and ( hopefully ) our first draft of a meaningful exception report ? Sorry that this response looks so long . I have been interrupted 20 times while responding , so I hope that it makes sense . Thanks for sharing this with me . Since you asked for input , I hope that you do n't mind that I gave you some . -- Sally David W Delainey@ECT 11/10/2000 01:04 PM Steve , I noticed that our allocation from 2000 to 2001 is going up by 21 % year on year ( ie ) $ 13.9 M from $ 11.5 M . We have been able to keep ENA 's direct group expenses flat year on year , we are trying hard to keep the corporate allocation flat year to year as well . Do you have a view on how we might be able to achieve this goal ? Regards Delainey Do n't worry about it ... sorry for putting you back on speaker . I just wanted Sue to hear ( she enjoys utility bashing so much ) . Thanks for the comment on the hearing . In some respects I do n't think the first panel could have gone much better ; everyone thanked FERC for intervening ( though for different reasons ) . The other staff reports are also looking good . Scott Miller has been a godsend -- somebody not afraid to tell it like it is . Jeff Dasovich Sent by : Jeff Dasovich 11/10/2000 12:33 PM I apologize if I offended anyone . Please let them know that I was simply quoting the CEO of a large , regulated utility in California . Thanks for attributing the quote to me . You did a great job at the hearing ---- it went decidely downhill after you left . Best , Jeff Does she have any interest in meeting one - on - one or is she just looking for a public hanging ? I remain convinced that if we can just get the facts in front of people they will modulate their approach . Jeff Dasovich Sent by : Jeff Dasovich 11/10/2000 12:21 PM Given the short notice , we will politely decline to participate at the hearing on Monday , but will let the good Senator know that , in general , we intend to engage actively in the process and plan to help California find a solution that works for everybody . Amen . See below . Can we get some help on the IBM issues ? Erin Rice 11/10/2000 11:08 AM Steve : At this point , our IT contacts are backpedalling a bit and suggesting they can overcome the TIBCO and Terminal Server problems . There are still four important issues , however : IT still can not commit to transferring messages across domains . This means that messages initiated at Corp and intended for the entire Enron organization will not reach any business units outside the Corp domain . No messages will reach the EES organization unless IBM agrees not to use their proprietary message delivery tool , WebSphere , and will use WebLogic instead . WebLogic is required by BackWeb , although it is designed by a separate company . HR , intended to be a key user of this tool , will not use BackWeb because survey responses can not be made anonymous . HR has already purchased a tool called CONFIRMIT that can execute anonymous surveys . Messages will not be delivered simultaneously to all users in the same domain , nor will they be delivered for two to five hours after they are sent by the message administrator . Another thing to consider is that these messages will be set to expire and disappear within a set period of time , meaning users can not retrieve them and read them later ( as they can with e-mail ) . This means that I could be away from the office for several days and miss a message entirely , because it would have expired and disappeared by the time I returned . The plain fact is that a few members of IT are pushing this initiative , but they lack commercial sponsorship . They are hoping Corp will foot the bill for a pilot which will allow them to fully test this tool before implementing it company - wide . Please let us know if you have additional questions . - er Steven J Kean 11/09/2000 11:35 AM Do we have a sense for how many we can reach , how many we ca n't and where they are ? Are whole offices ( eg Tokyo ) unreachable or is it only those who have home offices ? Courtney Votaw 11/08/2000 11:02 AM Mark and Steve - Erin Rice and I would like to meet with you to discuss the issues concerning BackWeb before we proceed . As you can see from the Design Document , they are pretty significant . Thanks , Courtney calendar Paul Kaufman@ECT Sent by : Lysa Akin@ECT 11/10/2000 05:59 PM Paul Kaufman has asked me to set a conference call to review the FERC Meeting that was held Thursday , Nov. 9th . Please be advised that I have set the call as follows : Date : Monday , Nov. 13th Time : 11:30 am / 1:30 pm Central / 2:30 pm Eastern Call In # : 888-422-7132 Pin # : 411507 Pin # for Paul Kaufman ONLY : 362416 If you have any questions , please call 503/464-7927 . Lysa Akin Ass't. to Paul Kaufman it 's on tonight it 's did you watch your girl on tv last night ? the deal number is 814014 - why ca n't you see this ? Did you do a deal with National Fuel Marketing purchasing 3,500 mmbtu on May 30th @ 2.975 ? They are invoicing for this and I do n't have an invoice for it . Can you give me the Sitara deal # ? Thanks Darla Ok to book for me and my husband , Joseph . I was issued a new corporate American Express card . Same number with expiration date of 3/03 . If you need any more info , please advise . Otherwise , I will assume you will book the two tickets . Thank you . Actually - upon second look the deal number is 814014 - why ca n't you see this ? Did you do a deal with National Fuel Marketing purchasing 3,500 mmbtu on May 30th @ 2.975 ? They are invoicing for this and I do n't have an invoice for it . Can you give me the Sitara deal # ? Thanks Darla should be non bondad Jane , on deal 763736 for May 01 sales to Southwest Gas , we have a pricing discrepancy . Our system reflects SJ Bondad GDP but SWG is going to pay us based on SJ Non-Bondad GDP . Can you please confirm which price is correct and make the change in Sitara if necessary ? Thanks Laurie Ellis Enron Net Works LLC Client Services Phone : ( 713 ) 345-9945 Fax : ( 713 ) 646-8420 Email : laurie.ellis@enron.com Sorry about the flooding . Hope you and your family survived ok . Attached are the gas settlement and support for May . The only difference we had was for package V02 . Mark Anderson says that even though Bondad gas flowed , the price was Non-Bondad . Have a great day . Nancy - ENRON.XLS << File : ENRON.XLS >> - enrongss.xls << File : enrongss.xls >> actually - for volumes flowing out of bondad - which is deal number 763736 price is bondad gda ; for blanco - deal number 759933 - price is nonbondad gda Jane , on deal 763736 for May 01 sales to Southwest Gas , we have a pricing discrepancy . Our system reflects SJ Bondad GDP but SWG is going to pay us based on SJ Non-Bondad GDP . Can you please confirm which price is correct and make the change in Sitara if necessary ? Thanks Laurie Ellis Enron Net Works LLC Client Services Phone : ( 713 ) 345-9945 Fax : ( 713 ) 646-8420 Email : laurie.ellis@enron.com Sorry about the flooding . Hope you and your family survived ok . Attached are the gas settlement and support for May . The only difference we had was for package V02 . Mark Anderson says that even though Bondad gas flowed , the price was Non-Bondad . Have a great day . Nancy - ENRON.XLS << File : ENRON.XLS >> - enrongss.xls << File : enrongss.xls >> I talked with Mark at SW Gas - just honro his numbers Nancy , can you please reconfirm with Mark the price for the gas at Bondad ? My trader is supporting her price of SJ Bondad GDP rather than SJ Non-Bondad GDP . Thanks Laurie Ellis Enron Net Works LLC Client Services Phone : ( 713 ) 345-9945 Fax : ( 713 ) 646-8420 Email : laurie.ellis@enron.com actually - for volumes flowing out of bondad - which is deal number 763736 price is bondad gda ; for blanco - deal number 759933 - price is nonbondad gda Jane , on deal 763736 for May 01 sales to Southwest Gas , we have a pricing discrepancy . Our system reflects SJ Bondad GDP but SWG is going to pay us based on SJ Non-Bondad GDP . Can you please confirm which price is correct and make the change in Sitara if necessary ? Thanks Laurie Ellis Enron Net Works LLC Client Services Phone : ( 713 ) 345-9945 Fax : ( 713 ) 646-8420 Email : laurie.ellis@enron.com Sorry about the flooding . Hope you and your family survived ok . Attached are the gas settlement and support for May . The only difference we had was for package V02 . Mark Anderson says that even though Bondad gas flowed , the price was Non-Bondad . Have a great day . Nancy - ENRON.XLS << File : ENRON.XLS >> - enrongss.xls << File : enrongss.xls >> Please find enclosed EES 's request for Volumes for PGE CityGate delvery effective 11/1/01 : See attached spreadsheet . Please quote the Gas on an Indexed Basis . If you have any questions or comments , please advise . I have not had the patience to get it working - I will call you some evening and we can walk thru it . How was your trip to Des Moines ? Did dthat stuff form Joe help your car . Hey Cester , When are we going to get NetMeeting going ? How is Deb 's knee ? Did she ever go to a real doctor ? [ Tholt , Jane M. ] Yes She is having physical theraphy 3 times a week . She said it is getting better . I have n't seen her for a couple of weeks and have only talked to her . I will probably be calling you next week - the desk wants me to become more involved in regulatory updates so I will seek your assistance with this matter . Jared just told me you have a BUNCH of stuff on your plate and I think you are about to get much busier too . cool by me ! Jared , Ruth and I are going to go over all the Florida activity tomorrow morning . If no one objects , I will be the lead coordinator on Florida starting tomorrow . Yes maam , she 's UBS now . She was just down here too . Chris , I did n't remember if your email mentioned Judy . Did she make it ? Cindy Franklin Transportation Services Work : 832.676.3177 Fax : 832.676.1329 Pager : 1.888.509.3736 ****************************************************************** This email and any files transmitted with it from the ElPaso Corporation are confidential and intended solely for the use of the individual or entity to whom they are addressed . If you have received this email in error please notify the sender . ****************************************************************** Jared , Ruth and I are going to go over all the Florida activity tomorrow morning . If no one objects , I will be the lead coordinator on Florida starting tomorrow . OK , I never get to talk to Ruth because SHE IS ALWAYS ON THE PHONE . And I bet she 's on the phone with Shemin too !!! Should we all get together and make a conference call to Dominion like we did before or should I just call Jeff Davis myself ? Our last call was Iris Kind , Bill Savier ( sp ? ) , and Jeff Davis . Do n't forget about me . I 'm still trying to find out what it will take to move gas on and ENA tabs agreement . No transportation at this point , just a tabs . Also , it will be much easier for you guys to monitor because most of the deals will be monthly . Steve , everything looks good with one exception . The rate schedule on Tennessee should be either NET - 2 or NET - 284 . I wo n't find out until Monday . You review and approve it , keep it on your desk , and I will come over and make the change at your desk on Monday . Then I 'll take it to Ed for his approval . By the way , Cullen and Dykman is sending copies of what we are doing to Melanie Gray . Chris : Per our conversation a few minutes ago , attached please find the revised Stipulation . This document has been modified with the changes that were in the mark - up you faxed to Toni Donohue here a few hours ago . I also deleted " subject to recall " based on our discussion , assuming you get approval for that revision . You informed me that you would discuss this with your attorney . Also , as I mentioned to you , we have faxed your mark - up to Melanie Gray at Weil Gotschal in Houston to keep her informed . ( Her voice mail says she 's out of the office until Monday . ) Thanks for all your help on this . David T. Metcalfe Cullen and Dykman LLP 177 Montague Street Brooklyn , New York 11201 phone : 718-780-0046 fax : 718-780-0276 e-mail : dmetcalfe@cullenanddykman.com ____________________________________________________ This email may contain material that is confidential , privileged and / or attorney work product for the sole use of the intended recipient ( s ) . Any review , reliance or distribution by others or forwarding without express permission is strictly prohibited . If you are not the intended recipient , please contact the sender and delete all copies . << Stipulation -ECT-KEDNE re IGTS & Tennessee Cap Releases -FINAL.doc >> << BLACKLINE -Stip -ECT-KEDNE re Cap Releases -2-F.doc >> - Stipulation -ECT-KEDNE re IGTS & Tennessee Cap Releases -FINAL.doc - BLACKLINE -Stip -ECT-KEDNE re Cap Releases -2-F.doc A heartwarming story of the advances of women in achieving equality throughout the world . Barbara Walters did a story on gender roles in Kuwait several years before the Gulf War . She noted then that women customarily walked about 10 feet behind their husbands . She returned to Kuwait recently and observed that the men now walked several yards behind their wives . Ms. Walters approached one of the women and said , " This is marvelous . Can you tell the free world just what enabled women here to achieve this reversal of roles ? " " Land mines , " said the Kuwaiti woman . Cullen and Dykman ( attorneys for Boston Gas Company ) approved all of our changes on the agreement to release the Tenn and Iroq space back to Boston Gas . They also made one other change , they are taking out the " subject to recall " language at the bottom of page 2 under item # 1 . They will be sending the revised document to me . I will deliver it to you for your approval . Maybe we can go drinking too . That would be fun . I 'll be at your house around 10:30 or 11 tonight . YOU REALLY DO NOT HAVE TO GO . I KNOW YOU HAVE A LOT GOING ON WITH YOU AND THE LITTLE WOMAN . I CAN HANDLE THE TRACTOR . love TO HAVE YOU ALONG FOR THE COMPANY , BUT IT IS NOT NECESSARY . YOU HAVE A LOT ON YOU PLATE , DAD . Chris.Germany@enron.com on 01/25/2002 03:13:58 PM Funny . No . I did n't feel guilty about the garage sale , that 's why I was annoyed - being notified at 10:00 at night GRRRRRRR . I do feel guilty about you doing all this work . So I 'm going with you , I pay for the gas and the twinkies . Correction , Jack welch is the CEO of GE , not GM . Vince Kaminski The eThink Team We recently asked you to create an eSpeak " wish list " for us . The response was tremendous and , in some cases , very creative . Your fellow employees asked for everyone from Britney Spears to George Bush . In all , we received requests for 61 persons outside of Enron to host an eSpeak event . We thought you might like to know who your colleagues find interesting , so we 've provided a sampling of the suggestions below . Here are the top ten most requested eSpeakers . 10 . Jack Welch , CEO , General Motors 9 . Scott McNeally , CEO , Sun Microsystems 8 . Satisfied Enron Customers 7 . Stephen Covey , author , The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People 6 . Oprah Winfrey , talkshow host 5 . General Colin Powell , former Chairman , Joint Chiefs of Staff , U.S.A . 4 . Alan Greenspan , Chairman , Federal Reserve , U.S.A . 3 . Former U.S. President George Bush 2 . Bill Gates , CEO , Microsoft 1 . Texas Governor George W. Bush While we ca n't make any promises , we will do our best to bring in at least some of these special guests . If you have any contacts who could help us get in touch with these guest speakers , please let us know at ethink@enron.com . Everybody needs a little help now and then , even eSpeak . There were plenty of internal speakers requested , as well . Those requests should be somewhat easier to meet , although scheduling time with some of our colleagues can be quite a task ! Thank you all for your participation . Dale , Confirmed . Vince Vince : 7 am at Hyatt Regency Downtown would be perfect . I will see you in the lobby at 7 am . Best regards , Dale Dale , Friday is a bad day ( Performance Review Committee all day ) . What about 7:00 at the office or breakfast meeting at 7:00 ? We can meet at Hyatt Regency Downtown ( Smith Street ) . Vince Vince : Can we get together Friday morning July 7 at 800 am at your office ? That would be particularly convenient for me . I will have to leave downtown at about 945 to catch a plane . That will ensure that I wo nt take up too much of your time !! Thanks for your efforts here , and thanks for being patient with me . Dale Nesbitt FYI Vince sold ! I 'll initiate the call . Ed , Thursday works for me . What about 10:30 my time ? Vince Please respond to < ekrapels@esaibos.com > how about Thursday , July 6 ? Ed , A correction . I shall spend an entire day at PRC ( performance review ) on Friday , July 7 . Can we do on another day Vince Please respond to < ekrapels@esaibos.com > I 'll still be here in Boston so we 'd do it over the phone . OK ? Ed , Will you be in Houston on that day or we shall do it over the phone ? Vince Please respond to < ekrapels@esaibos.com > Vince , How about a pre-meeting web site cruise on Friday , July 7 at 11 AM EDT ? Ed Ed , July 12 , 2:30 it is . I would like the pre-meeting site cruise . How can we arrange it ? Vince Please respond to < ekrapels@esaibos.com > Vince , We 're all set for 2:30 on July 12 . How about a pre-meeting web site cruise on Friday , July 7 at 11 AM EDT ? Ed Ed , Wednesday , July 12 , 2:300 will work for me . I shall be glad to review your website -- www.weathereffects.com . I shall invite some people who work on electricity in my group to join me . Vince Please respond to < ekrapels@esaibos.com > Vince , Good to hear from you and I 'm glad you 're available . How is Wednesday at 2:30 ? I did look at EOL and am not surprised to see its quality . I was unable to say much about it in my Risk Electricity Hedging and Trading report because of deadline pressures . How is the site doing ? I am intrigued by the competition for trading platforms and was astonished to hear that Goldman , Morgan , BP and Shell were going to launch a site to compete with yours . Talk about a shotgun marriage ! If we have time next week , I could step you through our website -- www.weathereffects.com . I 'm very proud of what we 've done . I ca n't give out a password yet but would be happy to walk through the site with you over the phone using my password . It 's a very ambitious site -- with state - of - the - art WSI weather ( seasonal , 6 - 10 , and day to day ) driving a good load model for PJM and NEPOOL . ESAI contributes oil and gas input price forecasts , capacity judgments , and " herding " ideas to develop power price forecasts for same time periods . After one month 's full - bore effort , I 'm pleased with the results ( e.g. , we forecast Nepool onpeak to be $ 43 and it turned out $ 46 ) . Have a great weekend . Ed Ed , I shall be available on both days . What about Wednesday , July 12 , between 1:30 and 4:00 . Please , let me know what time would work for you . It will be nice to see you again . Vince P.S. By the way , did you have a chance to take a look at the EOL ? Please respond to ekrapels@esaibos.com Caroline Abramo@ENRON 03/02/2001 10:46 AM what do you think ? Joe_Lardy@cargill.com on 03/02/2001 10:39:03 AM Currently Cargill and Enron have a 15 MM collateral threshold . If possible , I think the cleanest way to run this biz would be to put a box around the prime broker biz . We would still operate under the master isda but could set up a mutually agreeable credit support annex for this biz . We would still keep the 20,000,000 line referenced in Schedule B of the POA agreement . The line in the POA is a seperate and distinct measure from the daily collateral . The 20 mill reflects gross exposure . Let me know if you think this is reasonable and workable . We too , are open to suggestion as the Global and Enron relationships are very important and a high priority to us . Thanks Joe Joe - a few things regading the POA / Cargill line .. I am going to find out how much line we currently have available ... you probably already have this . We should allocate a piece to Global which would solve the problem of other Cargill people using the line , putting us over the limit , without me knowing ... We could change the language of the POA to this ... we will not go over Global 's piece of the Cargill line ... I think this would solve our main concern ... Please let me know ... we are eager to keep trading with Global and yourselves ... Regards , Caroline Dee : Let me know if we need to discuss anything . I am hopeful that we are ready to prepare execution copies . Regards . Sara Shackleton Susan Bailey 02/27/2001 08:23 AM Dee , Attached for your review is a blacklined version of the : ( a ) Schedule and ( b ) Paragraph 13 to the ISDA Master Agreement . These have been compared against the draft dated 11/8/2000 , and include ENA 's accepted changes per your ( a ) faxed comments transmitted to ENA on January 5 , 2001 , and ( b ) e-mail comments transmitted to ENA on January 19th , 2001 . We look forward to your response . Cordially , Susan S. Bailey I do n't know anything about these transactions . Sara Shackleton Jorge A Garcia@ENRON 03/01/2001 01:35 PM Good Afternoon Sara , I wanted to follow up with you regarding the creation and approval of ISDA Confirmations for the following equity trades that I understand Laurel had discussed with you previously . 1 ) Edison International - Swap with Enron Europe Ltd. ( 2 in total ) 2 ) PG&E - Swap with Enron Europe Ltd. ( 3 in total ) Please advise . Regards , Jorge " Calculation of Floating Amount : The Floating Amount payable by [ ENA ] on a Payment Date will be calculated for that Payment Date as follows : Floating Amount = ( Notional Quantity per Calculation Period X Floating Price ) - USD [ 38,000 ? ] Sara Shackleton " Other Provisions : On each Payment Date , [ ENA ] shall pay [ a fee of ] [ an amount equal to ] USD { 38,000 ? ] , which amount shall be subject to the netting provisions of the [ Master Agreement - how do you refer to the agreement ? ] " Sara Shackleton Sara Shackleton 03/02/2001 02:10 PM " Calculation of Floating Amount : The Floating Amount payable by [ ENA ] on a Payment Date will be calculated for that Payment Date as follows : Floating Amount = ( Notional Quantity per Calculation Period X Floating Price ) - USD [ 38,000 ? ] Sara Shackleton What person ( s ) in London prepares credit for the English and Singapore financial transactions ? At some point in the not so distant future , the Houson and London credit departments need to speak in order that each understands the " philosophy " behind credit analysis for the omnibus and master transactions . I look forward to hearing from you . Regards . Sara ps Congrats on your promotion ! I did n't have a chance to speak with you after the offsite to shake your hand . Hope you enjoyed your weekend in Houston . looks fine Sara Shackleton Carlos Alatorre@ENRON 02/27/2001 06:07 PM Sara : We need to change the Prod Description fro the LME Product . The change is mainly on the Settlement Date text , which instead of " ... Two business days after the date of the Transaction ... " shall read as follow : For Curr LME LME ( Spot ) 01 Mar 01 JPY / USD A currency Transaction with Enron Europe Finance & Trading Limited ( " EEFTL " ) as agent for Risk Management & Trading Corp. under which either ( A ) for the case in which Counterparty submits an offer to buy from EEFTL , Counterparty shall receive the Base Currency Amount and shall pay the Foreign Currency Amount , or ( B ) for the case in which Counterparty submits an offer to sell to EEFTL , Counterparty shall pay the Base Currency Amount and shall receive the Foreign Currency Amount . The Base Currency Amount shall equal the volume submitted by the Counterparty via the Website . The Foreign Currency Amount shall equal the Base Currency Amount , multiplied by the daily London Metal Exchange ( LME ) fixing rate as published by Reuters on page MTLE on the date of the transaction , modified by the price submitted by the Counterparty via the Website . The term of the Transaction shall correspond to the date ( s ) set forth in the Product description on the Website . The Settlement date shall be the date ( s ) set forth in the Product description on the Website . The price is quoted in JPY ( the ' Foreign Currency ' ) per US Dollar ( the ' Base Currency ' ) . The unit of measure against which the price is quoted shall be US Dollars . Please let me know your approval before we make any changes . Thanks Carlos I need to have a form filled out that says I do n't have health insurance coverage through Enron . Can you find out who I need to send it to in HR ? Thanks , Kay Your mom just called and said your dad 's surgery will be at 2:30 p.m . Tuesday , March 20th . They will be there by noon on the 20th , and the surgery will last 1.5 hours and then they 'll watch him for 2 more hours before they put him into ICU . They are hoping he 'll only be in the hospital 48 hours . Scott Term sheet for draft contract , as requested . I have a change in plans next week . My dad is having surgery in Ft. Worth , so I will be heading that way on Monday . I was planning to be on vacation anyway , but I may have some accessibility challenges in Ft. Worth which I would not have had otherwise . I will manage client expectations accordingly . Kay I hope you do n't change your mind about going to the wedding Sunday . I plan on taking Michael to the new Star Wars exhibit at the Museum of Fine Arts . They showed some kids on TV , and they were quite taken with it . ++++++ CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE +++++ The information in this email may be confidential and / or privileged . This email is intended to be reviewed by only the individual or organization named above . If you are not the intended recipient or an authorized representative of the intended recipient , you are hereby notified that any review , dissemination or copying of this email and its attachments , if any , or the information contained herein is prohibited . If you have received this email in error , please immediately notify the sender by return email and delete this email from your system . Thank You Kay Mann 03/15/2001 04:03 PM I have a change in plans next week . My dad is having surgery in Ft. Worth , so I will be heading that way on Monday . I was planning to be on vacation anyway , but I may have some accessibility challenges in Ft. Worth which I would not have had otherwise . I will manage client expectations accordingly . Kay I 'm not planning to get involved since this is your deal . Is that ok with you ? Lorie Leigh @ ECT 03/15/2001 04:17 PM Conference Plus will be hosting this call : the date : Thursday , March 22nd , 2001 the number : 1-800-991-9019 the passcode : 6871082# the time : 10:00 AM - 11:00 AM CST the place : EB 3143C the subject : Turbine 1 and Turbine 2 Purchase Agreement If you have any problems or questions , please feel free to call me at 713-853-1696 . Thank you , Lorie Leigh Yes , but this time it is his carotid artery - the one that transports blood to the brain . Big deal kind a stuff . I hope your dad 's surgery goes well ! Is this related to the problems he is having getting around ( circulatory ? ) ? Kathleen Kay Mann 03/15/2001 04:11 PM Kay Mann 03/15/2001 04:03 PM I have a change in plans next week . My dad is having surgery in Ft. Worth , so I will be heading that way on Monday . I was planning to be on vacation anyway , but I may have some accessibility challenges in Ft. Worth which I would not have had otherwise . I will manage client expectations accordingly . Kay For better or worse , all the folks under the heading " Origination " and " Development " are ours , although Kathleen has a special role with Development . Kay FYI - See rows 49 - 53 ; columns E - J for our group . Kathleen Lorie Leigh @ ECT 03/15/2001 04:44 PM I received a report from HR and it appears there is conflicting information regarding some of the titles for various employees . Please verify that the titles are correct for everyone in your group . The ones that I made changes to are in red . Thanks , Paula . I formatted the file so that it would print on one legal size sheet . Please use this new file as opposed to the one I sent earlier . Please review the attached org chart for March and submit any changes by noon tomorrow . It is imperative that all of the information on the attached file is accurate , including titles , as this information is being given directly to John Lavorato and Louise Kitchen . Thanks , Paula . Here 's the version showing revisions . Kay -- I finally got it to blackline correctly . Here it is . Also attached is a sample availability provision ( actually 2 different versions ) . - redvepco.doc - SAMPLE.DOC Lorie Leigh @ ECT 03/15/2001 04:17 PM Conference Plus will be hosting this call : the date : Thursday , March 22nd , 2001 the number : 1-800-991-9019 the passcode : 6871082# the time : 10:00 AM - 11:00 AM CST the place : EB 3143C the subject : Turbine 1 and Turbine 2 Purchase Agreement If you have any problems or questions , please feel free to call me at 713-853-1696 . Thank you , Lorie Leigh 46093 Kay Mann 02/13/2001 04:13 PM Good afternoon , I 'm forwarding a revised development agreement term sheet , showing revisions from your original version . We look forward to seeing you soon . Thanks , Kay Peggy Banczak is the ENA lawyer who handles Mexico . John Schwartzenburg@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 03/16/2001 09:22 AM I do not think the prior e-mail got through to Kay . Are either of you familiar with this project ? We have had no contact with the ENA / Enron Mexico commercial or legal people and I do n't want to bust any structuring goals . Our project manager ( Scott Laidlaw ) and engineer ( Harry Okabayashi ) want to issue a tasking letter to procure engineering services on this project to support the ENA work . I now understand that someone at ENA / Enron Mexico / Enron Wholesale has signed an EPC contract with ABB for this project . I am not in the office today , so please include Renee Alfaro on your response . JWVS Hello Janice : I enjoyed your recent e-mail but was sorry to hear about your dad . It sounds as though his health has deteriorated significantly . These are always difficult times . As I watched my mother and father 's health deteriorate and ultimately watched them die , it is a very defining time in our lives . But we can be very thankful to have such great parents and to have had the privilege to have been raised in such loving homes . Sounds as though Eric has done very well as SMSU . He is joining an excellent company . I am also delighted to hear that he will continue his education working toward an MBA . As we are living in an age where intellectual capital is so valuable , it is important for every young person to obtain the very best possible education they can . As to our family , within the last ten days our youngest daughter Elizabeth was married to a young man from Buenos Aires , Argentina . They met while they were both working on a project as lawyers in Buenos Aires . They 're currently on their honeymoon but shortly after returning will be moving from Buenos Aires to Miami , Florida . This past Thursday night our sixth grandchild was born . It was born to our son David and his wife Courtney . It was a 7 lb. , 10 oz. , 20 inch little boy . So we now have three grandsons and three granddaughters ranging from about 2 years - 4 months down to a few days . They are a great deal of fun . We are doing quite well . I am looking forward to seeing Ginger " Rees " Copeland when she comes to Houston . I would be delighted to arrange tickets for you and your family should you ever have occasion to visit Houston . I hope you have a great summer . Thank you for your recent request for Mr. Lay to speak at your conference . Unfortunately , do to Mr. Lay 's schedule he will not be able to participate . Thank you again , Tori L. Wells Executive Secretary Hi - Just to let you know that it looks like one day will work . I want to check with Mr. Lay before confirming . Thanks . Rosalee Dear Ken , As you know , our next meeting is on Wednesday , July 12 from 3:00 - 5:30 p.m . In the next week or so , we 'll be sending around a discussion paper which we hope crystallizes the issues , and we will try to talk to as many of you as possible before the meeting to go through it . Meanwhile , Arthur Levitt has agreed to meet with us in September to brainstorm on the ideas we 've generated and also to give us a sense of some of the issues as he sees them . There are three possible dates for the meeting , which I suggest be in two parts -- first , a meeting among the panel only from 5:00 - 6:30 p.m. , and then a dinner with Chairman Levitt from 6:30 - 8:30 p.m . Here are the dates : Could you please let us know which of these would be possible for you : ___________ Thursday , September 14 5:00 - 8:30 pm ___________ Monday , September 25 5:00 - 8:30 pm ___________ Wednesday , September 27 5:00 - 8:30 pm Many thanks , Jeff Garten Good morning , Kitty - Ken Lay would like to have the Armada M306 series - " the first ultra portable notebook designed for the enterprise " . Ken said to go ahead and equip it with what you think it should have . Please let me know when he can expect to receive it . Thanks , Kitty . Rosalee Here is the link to the latest commercial laptops on the market , I will follow up with the consumer models . The M300 series are the lightest and the E500's are the all in one but much heavier . http://www.compaq.com/products/notebooks/index.html << Compaq.com - notebook.url >> - Compaq.com - notebook.url Unfortunately , Mr. Lay will be in San Jose , CA participating in a conference , where he is a speaker , on June 14 . Rosalee Fleming RE : ??? June 14 Reception Recently Charles Miller and David Dewhurst sent you an invitation to a reception which they are hosting on Wed. 6/14 at 5:00 PM to be held at the Houston Petroleum Club . I hope that you will be able to attend that event . Under the leadership of Governor Bush and others we have made real progress in Education in Texas over the past decade .? Now it is time to take the next steps and achieve even greater progress in our public education system . The Texas Education Reform Caucus is made up of business leaders , educators , and elected officials dedicated to finding common sense approaches to improving education in Texas . I would appreciate the opportunity to visit with you on the 14th . Kent Grusendorf State Representative District 94 ? This is o.k. for Ken Lay , but we are changing to a more uniform address , so would likely be better to use kenneth.lay@enron.com . This is a " test email send " of the WPO Forum Group from Richard Everett . By return email , please verify that you received this message and let us know if there is another email address that you prefer us to use . Thank you . Joy Powell Executive Assistant to Richard Everett 713/871-5119 =================================================== NOTE : The information in this email is confidential and may be legally privileged . If you are not the intended recipient , you must not read , use or disseminate the information . Although this email and any attachments are believed to be free of any virus or other defect that might affect any computer system into which it is received and opened , it is the responsibility of the recipient to ensure that it is virus free and no responsibility is accepted by Century Development or any of its affiliates for any loss or damage arising in any way from its use . ==================================================== Kenneth Lay has approved the attached expense report for Cindy Olson . Hi Mr. Katsof - I believe someone called about this today , but Mr. Lay asked me to let you know that these dates do n't work for him , either . Sorry . Rosalee let me know if you have any interest in the Tco - Pool Leach swap for the winter . I 'll take TCO pool at Index and sale Leach or Pool at Index - $ .04 . I ca n't remember if you guys could do it or not . Could you tell me what deal tickets you are seeing ? Please check Tenn contract 36647 on the Demand speadsheet . Sitara is n't matching the spreadsheet . Thanks , Brenda Pasquallie , - 5 for spelling , W. Don Germany , Jr PO Box 27 Cedar Lane , Texas 77415-0027 Actually it is not a new truck . Had 33,000 miles , Ram 2500 3 / 4 ton , 4 x 4 , 360 Magnum Motor . Infinity stereo , bucket seats , nerf bars , tool box , bed liner , camper tow package , 5 speed manual . Oh , it is dueled out through one catalytic converter with Flow Masters to accent the sound . Makes me want to race !!! I believe the fuel consumption will be tolerable as well . Now , Debbie wants it . I gave $ 16,900 + tax . It is very clean and is Sandalwood , Driftwood or something of that nature in color . Almost silver . I have to pick up old gray over at Jerry 's . Debbie said , it is going to be hard on me to sale my old dodge truck . I said Yep , had that truck longer than I have had most of my women . I really need to engage brain before articulating ! I am doing dirt work and hope to plant ST Augustine Grass by Friday before rain . One thing is for sure , the economy is not faltering on my account . Dow Stock is back up over $ 33 . Hooray , hoorah ! Needs to go to $ 41 and then I will be happy . I spoke with Gerald and he said there are a bunch of folks hanging around Dad 's place . We need to change the lock and place posted signs at the gate . I may want to put some steers or heifers up there . I am going up soon and having the tractor fixed . Reggie said he will pay us soon . He also still wants the tractor if we can hold on to it . First come , first serve . When is the wedding ? We 're set for 11/01/01 . Be sure to take your sweety out on the balcony tonight and gaze at the full moon . It was sure beautiful coming up last night . We used to go out and lay in the pasture on a blanket and watch for the space shuttle . I had a couple of hickies on my neck the day after and the guys all wanted to know if those were shuttle burns . Just jealous . My kid is making wonderful grades and has reassured me she will graduate within the four year period . She still has some sort of scholarship but I am not for sure how much it pays . She is going to be a kinesiologist , sports injury therapist . I think she just wants to be able to touch football players legs . She will be 20 on 11/03 . I am really proud of her . Cindy said Jaime has grown up very much . You should e mail her sometimes . I am sure she would like to hear from you . Jgerma5@aol.com . At any rate , be careful and be safe . You should have listened to Maw , as long as you keep your mouth shut and your pants zipped , you will be alright . Shucks , guess none of us three paid much attention to that . Oh , Jeff Sherrar has a new book out . Rise to Rebellion . There were some pretty cool dudes back around 1774 / 76 . There will be two volumes to this saga . I am half way through the first and you can borrow it when I am through . I sure like his style of writing . His books are always hard to put down . After the split Dow Stock there are 120 shares . Keep Your Powder Dry ! Yo , Bro Dow W. Don Germany , Jr. 2301 N Brazosport Blvd B 3611 , Investment Recovery Freeport , Texas 77541 Pager 1 800 451 0491 ( 0448 ) Office 979 238 2102 Home 979 548 7034 What 's happening ? I understand you have a brand new truck . Must be nice having money !! I need 2 things from you . 1 . I found the title to the 4 wheeler and I was going to change it over to you name . What do you think ? If that 's ok , how do you want your name to show up on the title and what address should I use ? 2 . I 'm getting ready to divy up the Dow stock . How many of Dad 's shares do you have ? Last thing , send me a million dollars , I 'm tired of working . I thought we only had cashout , at most 3 times , before this June . I ca n't remember . I do know that most of the time this plant was not buring like it did in July and August of this year . I say we just keep the dough and go to Mexico . Hey guys , Would you please ck the Oglethorpe deal from July 2000 - Dec 2000 ? Is there supposed to be a cashout booked in Sitara for these months ? Oglethorpe over paid their invoice every month . I believe that Doug told me the extra was for the cashout that was not invoiced . Thanks Darla I ca n't get through on the phones . Please call me 713-853-4743 Hey Ernie . I 'm checking my emails . I assume you have your anwser and do n't need me . Hi Chris , I sent this to Mary last week . She may be out because in the past she always responds pretty quick . I need the prices below . Can you help out ? Thanks , Ernie Simien 08/01/2001 09:14 AM Sent by : Ernie Simien Hi Mary , I need your help again . I need prices for May , June , and July . Thanks , Mary.Ellenberger@enron.com on 05/03/2001 04:06:52 PM Please respond to Mary.Ellenberger@enron.com cc : Subject : Re : IF TGPL LA Z1 Jan 9.95 Feb 6.25 Mar 4.98 April 5.37 esimien@nisource.com on 05/03/2001 01:32:35 PM Hi Mary , Please do me a favour and give me the subject price for Jan , Feb , Mar and Apr 2001 . Thanks , Gregg Penman 10/23/2000 12:12 PM Kay - Can you please review this additional language to the risk management policy ( or circulate to Jeff Hodge ) ? In light of the CA regarding curves , I am slightly concerned with a blanket statement essentially giving Peoples unlimited access to information . I know that we address audit rights in the LLC agreement so this may not matter anyway if this is a right they already have . Let me know what you think . Thanks , Gregg m.nordstrom@pecorp.com 10/20/2000 11:32 AM Attached please find the latest enovate risk policy . Our attorneys and internal audit area have made one language revision concerning Section XIII Audit Rights . Mary << MEH-risk Oct 20 >> - MEH-risk Oct 20.doc I 'm still at home . I 'll be in tomorrow . I have a fax machine at home , though , if you prefer . Otherwise , we can see who we can scare up at the office , or you can have Laura sign and I 'll initial later . Which do you prefer ? Kay Are you in the office to initial signature pages today ? If not , is there someone else that will ? I know that Jeff is in Portland . Gregg Kay Mann 10/26/2000 11:07 AM If Jeff is happy , I 'm happy . Kay Hello - I spoke with Jeff Hodge yesterday regarding the additional language from Peoples regarding Audit Rights . His initial reaction was that their request was probably reasonable and in line with the spirit of a jointly owned L.L.C . However , he did suggest a couple slight revisions to protect Enron 's interests . 1 ) Highlighting that information will only be provided that is related to enovate and 2 ) that each designated representative should sign an appropriate confidentiality agreement . This language has been included in the attached draft . My goal , however optimistic , is to execute the risk policy by the end of today . Activity is picking up dramatically and the fine line is getting further blurred each passing day . Therefore , I need to know ASAP if there are any problems with the draft as written . Otherwise , I will be sending it to Peoples as our final revision by mid morning . Thanks for your prompt attention to this . Thanks , Gregg Gregg Penman 10/23/2000 12:12 PM Kay - Can you please review this additional language to the risk management policy ( or circulate to Jeff Hodge ) ? In light of the CA regarding curves , I am slightly concerned with a blanket statement essentially giving Peoples unlimited access to information . I know that we address audit rights in the LLC agreement so this may not matter anyway if this is a right they already have . Let me know what you think . Thanks , Gregg m.nordstrom@pecorp.com 10/20/2000 11:32 AM Attached please find the latest enovate risk policy . Our attorneys and internal audit area have made one language revision concerning Section XIII Audit Rights . Mary << MEH-risk Oct 20 >> - MEH-risk Oct 20.doc It is less complicated for me to initial and fax than to track down someone who does n't know anything about it and get them to initial it . I can print it here , initial it , and fax it to whomever you want . Plus , I work with Janet a lot so she may get some comfort from that , instead of having a lawyer she has n't dealt with initial it . She is very conscientious about what she signs , and who initials what . Is the attached form the final final form ? Where and to whom do you want it faxed ? Thanks , Kay Since it will be Janet signing , it will probably be better to have the initials on the pages first . Either fax or someone else works fine . Let me know which is easier and we can coordinate . Gregg Kay Mann 10/26/2000 11:26 AM I 'm still at home . I 'll be in tomorrow . I have a fax machine at home , though , if you prefer . Otherwise , we can see who we can scare up at the office , or you can have Laura sign and I 'll initial later . Which do you prefer ? Kay Are you in the office to initial signature pages today ? If not , is there someone else that will ? I know that Jeff is in Portland . Gregg Kay Mann 10/26/2000 11:07 AM If Jeff is happy , I 'm happy . Kay Hello - I spoke with Jeff Hodge yesterday regarding the additional language from Peoples regarding Audit Rights . His initial reaction was that their request was probably reasonable and in line with the spirit of a jointly owned L.L.C . However , he did suggest a couple slight revisions to protect Enron 's interests . 1 ) Highlighting that information will only be provided that is related to enovate and 2 ) that each designated representative should sign an appropriate confidentiality agreement . This language has been included in the attached draft . My goal , however optimistic , is to execute the risk policy by the end of today . Activity is picking up dramatically and the fine line is getting further blurred each passing day . Therefore , I need to know ASAP if there are any problems with the draft as written . Otherwise , I will be sending it to Peoples as our final revision by mid morning . Thanks for your prompt attention to this . Thanks , Gregg Gregg Penman 10/23/2000 12:12 PM Kay - Can you please review this additional language to the risk management policy ( or circulate to Jeff Hodge ) ? In light of the CA regarding curves , I am slightly concerned with a blanket statement essentially giving Peoples unlimited access to information . I know that we address audit rights in the LLC agreement so this may not matter anyway if this is a right they already have . Let me know what you think . Thanks , Gregg m.nordstrom@pecorp.com 10/20/2000 11:32 AM Attached please find the latest enovate risk policy . Our attorneys and internal audit area have made one language revision concerning Section XIII Audit Rights . Mary << MEH-risk Oct 20 >> - MEH-risk Oct 20.doc I 'm working on it now . Maybe we ( Enron ) could review it tomorrow morning , then send it to FCE . I can meet around 10:00 . That way , we can get it to them in time for weekend review . Does that work ? Kay It was good to hear from you ! We had a nice Thanksgiving here too . It 's funny , because usually it 's just me , Mom , Craig and Danelia , and Danelia does n't really like roasted turkey or roast beef ( not that she would say it to me ! ) , so there is not just the same joy in cooking it would be elsewise . It was good having the girls down . We played a new version of Uno called " African Uno " that was complex , fast and at times , physically challenging . It 's not for the meek . It was incredible what a good player Alena was . She had her cards memorized as well as everyone else s ( when you play you 'll see why you can know everyone else s hands ! ) . I expect Craig did n't want Mom to see his place because it was messy . I think compared to my house , he 's embarrased about his apartment . Then , also , he 's got so much stuff in there right now , that I do n't know how he 's going to fit baby stuff . They would only give him a 6 month lease when he renewed his lease last month because they do n't want 3 people in that small apartment . So he 's going to have to start looking for another place . And his apartment is so run down down I 'm afraid roaches might be crawling over the baby . I guess Mom is going to come back down sometime in March or April to see the new baby . You 'll have to come visit to check out my new house . The upstairs " guest suite " is pretty neat . It 's got its own bathroom and tv , and is pretty cozy . As far as the call with Uncle Ben goes , if he was thrilled to hear from me I could n't tell by his voice . It was a pretty stilted conversation for both of us . But , I guess , it 's a start ... I 've already made my XMAS plans . I leave the evening of the 21st , my flight comes in about 10 pm , and leave the morning of the 27th at 6 am . It 's good chatting with you . Keep in touch ! Kyle.Jones@radianz.com 11/29/2000 05:07 PM Tana , I do n't understand , what do you mean by " log in an email " ? Anyway , I got you message , and I got the World Series thing ( although I had already received Chris and Ben did a marvelous job for Thanksgiving , I can testify that it was one of the best Thanksgiv8ing Dinners I 've ever had ( I not gon na tell them that , I do n't want them getting swell heads ) . Ma said she had a great time in Houston , She was happy to see yourself , as well as C & D . I think she likes her special room in your house . You r gon na be the first to see the new baby ( woud n't it be wierd if the baby gets botn on Jan 5th ? ) Why did n't Craig show Ma his appartment ? What do you think about your phone ocnversation with Unlce Ben ( he was almost shocked ) ? Are you coming for Xmas ? Got ta go for now . Love ya . Kyle ==================================================== ( Harrison ) Kyle Jones Technical Solutions Engineer ==================================================== Radianz 1251 Avenue of the Americas 7th Floor New York , NY 10016 USA Phone : +1 ( 212 ) 899-4425 Fax : +1 ( 212 ) 899-4310 Cell : +1 ( 917 ) 859-7187 Email : kyle.jones@radianz.com ==================================================== See our web page at " http://www.radianz.com ==================================================== |--------+-----------------------> | | Tana.Jones@en | | | ron.com | | | | | | 11/29/2000 | | | 04:34 PM | | | | |--------+-----------------------> >----------------------------------------------------------------------------| | | >----------------------------------------------------------------------------| Hey , Mr. Computer , you ca n't log an email in to your sister ?! Kyle.Jones@ra Return Receipt Your World Series in Question document : was received Kyle Jones / US / AMERICAS / Equant by : at : 01:00:51 PM Today You can take my assistant Taffy Milligan off these emails again . Thanks ! Adnan Patel@ENRON 11/29/2000 04:49 PM Attached are the GCP Signoffs on EOL Approvals for 11/29/00 with GCP responses marked in Red . Adnan Patel Bradley Diebner@ECT 11/29/2000 04:31 PM Regards , bd Attached is the referenced agreement . Let me know if the notice information is OK with you . If so , I 'll get it signed by Craig Breslau today , then bring it to you for countersignature . Thinking about that , what 's your title ? I 'm not sure you have the authority to sign documents w/o special authority ... No , it does not mean that . Adding all the Enron " Specified Entities " would only make a default under a financial transaction with those other Enron entities a default under this agreement . Our concern is that we do n't want any trading related defaults to ever trigger a default under a loan transaction which has a swap as a component . Richard Sage 11/30/2000 10:52 AM If you do add all the entities , does that mean that we would not need to put in place a separate agreement for ECCL ? With respect to Deutsche Bank ( "" DB " ) , we have one credit issue remaining , DB would like us to add all the Enron trading entities DB trades with as Specified Entities under the ISDA Master Agreement and we are somewhat hesitant to do so , as this could potentially roll up swaps under structured loan transactions into a default under the ISDA Agreement . Sara and Bill Bradford in Credit are supposed to talk to the DB Credit people about this remaining issue . With respect to First Union National Bank , the draft we were working from was so old that they agreed to look at our current form of agreement which was sent to them on 11/8/00 for review . Sara is working on that with Susan Bailey , another paralegal in our Group . Denis O'Connell 11/22/2000 06:05 AM Tana - can you please give me an update on where you are in the negotiations of the ISDA with the following counterparties and confirm which Enron entity you are negotiating on behalf of . Tks , Denis First Union National Bank Deutsched Bank AG I spoke to Mark Taylor about your signing authority , and he agrees that you do not have the authority to execute documents on your own , but as long as you are only co-signing documents signed by an authorized officer as a control measure we 're OK . Susan , Joe , The referenced TAGG # was entered as a ' New Counterparty ' , can you please let me know what counterparty this is so we can correctly assess the counterparty exposure . Thank you , Russell Hey there yourself , Sorry I have n't written you guys in a while to keep you properly updated . I am indeed checking on flights to Seoul and do n't think I 'm going to go at exactly the same time as my parents . As much fun as they are , I figured we would probably do some different things than what you have planned for them . As for Ted , things are still going well although I have n't see him at all this week ( we are two very busy people ) . But , we had a great laid back day last Saturday and I think have hit that comfortable stage ... you know , not quite so formal about dates etc . In one sense it 's great , but it also makes things a lot harder to read . Anyway , I 'm sure my Mom told you guys but Travis and Kathy got to meet him and I think it went well . Hopefully , if we 're still dating come December , you and Chuck can meet him when you come back to visit . I 'm planning on dragging him to at least one of the U.T. games , I just have to find out when he wants to go ( as well as properly prepare him for the Scott / Kelley / Parks / Wild Card gang and the full - day affair that is a U.T. game ) . Things in Houston are good and definitely warm . I went with Emily and her Mom last night to see the musical " Rent " and it was wonderful . Also , I 'm going out to San Diego for the Labor Day weekend to visit Hoot 's daughter Julie . Needless to say I am very excited . Talk to you guys soon , Susan Hey girlie , How are you doing ? Have n't heard from you in a while . A little birdie told me that you were checking into tickets for Seoul . Are you really ? Would you come with your parents or separately ? In any case , we have had some more time to do some exploring ( and shopping ) , so we have some good ideas about what to do if you come . I think that we will stay in Korea when your parents come and do the whole base thing ( which will take only a few minutes , actually ) , but are considering going to China or somewhere during part of Thanksgiving . We 'll do whatever you want want if you still are coming ! Let us know the latest with Ted and also with what 's going on in Houston . Take care , Chris __________________________________________________ Do You Yahoo! ? Send instant messages & get email alerts with Yahoo! Messenger . http://im.yahoo.com/ Hey Tonto ( a.k.a - the trusty , but silent , side - kick to the Lone Ranger or in this case the Big D ) The play was very good and I think well received . I 'd forgotten how blown away I was by some of the songs the first time I saw it in NY . The cast members really have to have incredibly powerful voices to pull off a few of the most poignant numbers ( I think this could be your true calling ) . I caught the third day of Corey 's Jeopardy run last night here at the office ( yes , I had to come back after the play ... I love my job ! ) . Anyway , I 'm sure I 'd mentioned it before but yes she is a very smart girl . As a result of that , she has managed on several occasions over the years to detract from my enjoyment of playing Trivial Pursuit or watching Jeopardy by absolutely obliterating me ( The girl actually did her senior thesis on Trivia ) . Kori told me she saw you last night at Steak Night and introduced herself since I failed to do so the last time we went . I should let you know though that she was very offended this morning that you did n't spell her name right in the email - I mean it 's such a common spelling . So was Darren there last night to meet her or do you just think they 'd make a good match ? She 's a very fun girl . Hope you day is going well and that the move to 30 went off without a hitch . Good luck with all of the " fun " meetings . Shorty -- Due to the lack of response yesterday , I 'm beginning to worry about your success with the road test ... I 'm going to assume that you did n't get around to it . Ted Noble 08/17/2000 10:05 AM How was the play ? I forgot to tell you that I saw your friend on a re-run Jeopardy the other night and I almost called you but it came on at 11:30 . Smart girl . I ran into Corey last night at LW s and I am thinking this is a girl for Darren . Anyway , lots of fun meetings today . I 'll talk to you later . Maybe you should ignore the sentiment of the quote I sent earlier ... I think you may be adhering to it too faithfully . At this rate we may have to start pinning notes to your shirt to remind you to do things . However , having driven with you on several occasions I feel confident you will be able to pass the test with flying colors . Keep in mind though that if you end up failing I will not let you forget it ( and , as we have established , I have the memory of an elephant ) . I 'll keep discussion of me to a minimum and just say that things are well on 32 . Now back to what 's really important ... you . Thought you 'd like to know that the Dixie Chicks are coming back to Houston Dec. 12 and will performing just down the street from you at the Compaq Center ... it 's all about you and your needs . Ted Noble 08/16/2000 10:56 AM AAAAAGGGHHHHHH ... I just found out that I need to take the TX driver s exam both written and on the rode . This is a two day process and all because I let my CA license expire . I know I need some of your organizational skills . I may try to run out and take the test this afternoon while I get moved to 30 ( I better not fail it ) . How 's life on 32 today -- well that 's enough about you let 's talk more about me . There is no pleasure in having nothing to do ; the fun is in having lots to do and not doing it . - Mary Little Bob Bowen 07/14/2000 03:58 PM Note that the No " Out " version requires us to pay the premium on Tuesday ! GILBERGD@sullcrom.com 07/14/2000 02:18 PM As we discussed , the following is revised disclosure regarding direct access to deal with the cost issue : EnronOnline will assist users , upon request , in arranging for the connection of " T1 " lines or other means of direct access to EnronOnline , as an alternative to internet access . Direct access connections might enable users to access EnronOnline more quickly than is currently possible through internet access . Please call if you want to discuss . Have a good weekend . This e-mail is sent by a law firm and contains information that may be privileged and confidential . If you are not the intended recipient , please delete the e-mail and notify us immediately . The least we can do is pass this news along . Is there anyone else we should tell ? Ted Bockius < Ted.Bockius@ivita.com > 07/17/2000 02:21 PM fyi ... it sound like Bobby is in serious condition . Thanks , Sharon I think they 'll send us another update once he 's out of emergency and into a room .? Then it 's real easy to call Ben Taub to find out a room number .? The address is below .? It does n't sound like he can receive visitors yet . A . Thanks for the heads up .? Do you know the address to send cards ?? Do you know if Bobby can see visitors ?? Some of the folks here would like to know . Thanks , Sharon Thought you might like to know . Amy Cornell Compaq CPCG Marketing P : 281-518-9526 F : 281-518-1081 amy.cornell@compaq.com < mailto:amy.cornell@compaq.com < mailto:amy.cornell@compaq.com > > Jann , phoned this morning and asked me to pass this information to the group , concerning Bobby Riggins . Bobby is a member of a bicycle team , while cycling this weekend , he and other members of his team were injured by a truck .? There was one death in the injured group and the others with major injuries .? Bobby is one of those with major injuries .? He is currently in the emergency room at Ben Taub Hospital .? Ben Taub hospital is located at 1504 Taub Loop , Houston , Texas , phone number : 713-793-2000 .? He can not accept calls , visits or flowers at this time , since he is in the emergency room .? An update will be e-mailed , as soon as one is available . Keep Bobby , his team members and their families in your prayers . Rosario Gonzales Administrative Assistant ESSG CCA-15 , 150301 , 153B09 281-514-3183 rosario.gonzales@compaq.com < mailto:rosario.gonzales@compaq.com < mailto:rosario.gonzales@compaq.com > > I think it 's a good idea since the provisional application is on file - Travis is the internal lawyer who has taken care of the patent application so he will have better ideas for where the words should be placed and appropriate look and feel ( I would guess near the copyright notice and roughly equivalent size ) . David Forster@ENRON 07/17/2000 06:15 PM Mark , We are thinking of adding a Patent Pending message to key EnronOnline pages ( like the homepage ) . Can you offer comments / concerns / guidelines ? Dave Does it make sense for us to set up a meeting with you participating from Buenos Aires ? I 'm not sure we have much to tell them at this stage - actually , I 'm sure I do n't have anything new to report but if you do that would be fine with me . Patrick Hansen@ENRON 07/17/2000 04:28 PM Michael and myself are planing to be in Hoston on Thursday and Friday of this week . We intend to see as many people as possible regarding EOL implementation . We will meet Dave Forster and his team among others . We would like to fit a meeting with you as a group or individually . Please let me know about your availability and if it is possible to meet with more than one of you in one place . Thank you FYI David Forster@ENRON 07/17/2000 02:34 PM Further background : Argentina intend to press ahead even given the concern about taxes , etc . They wish to launch on Sept. 1 - meaning we will need to be sending mailings sometime around mid-August . Dave Leonardo Pacheco 07/17/2000 08:50 AM Mark , Just wanted to know were we stand on the ETA and PA for Argentina ? Thanks for your help ! Leonardo Pacheco ext. 39938 If you need more , there is a proposal from the documentation committee for a new alternative for calculating termination amounts ( we heard about it in Amsterdam ) that I think will be particularly attractive to the energy markets . I do n't know where this stands officially ( I have n't heard any developments since Amsterdam ) but I can find out from Bob Pickle if you want . Mark E Haedicke 07/18/2000 08:58 AM We should include ISDA energy definitions , CFTC matters re energy and an overview of power deregulation developments in North America . I might also add a few items about international developments and the EEI physical power trading form . I am thinking 4 slides at the most . Is that what you want ? Mark Current Plan : Days away : Sept. 21 through Oct. 3 ( assuming you work on the day we leave and go back to work the day after we return ) 9 work days Wed. Sept. 20 - Leave Houston around 6:00 pm Thur. Sept. 21 - Arrv. London early a.m. , transfer to flight to Nice - Arrv. Nice around noon ? rent car & drive to first hotel ( less than 1 hour away ) ; collapse Fri. Sept. 22 - Stay in same hotel , visit Monaco , Nice ? Sat. Sept. 23 - Drive to St. Tropez - through Nice , Cannes & other coastal towns , check - in mid afternoon Sun. Sept. 24 - St. Tropez Mon. Sept. 25 - St. Tropez Tue. Sept. 26 - Drive to Nice , return car , fly to Paris Wed. Sept. 27 - Paris Thur. Sept. 28 - Paris ( Versailles or Fontainbleu - half day side trip ) Fri. Sept. 29 - Paris ( Giverny - Monet 's gardens - 3 / 4 day side trip ) Sat. Sept. 30 - Paris Sun. Oct. 1 - Paris to London in afternoon - probably by Eurostar train - ( arrv. London late afternoon ) Mon. Oct. 2 - London ( meetings for CLH ) Tues. Oct. 3 - Fly London to Houston ( lv. around noon , arrv. around 4:30 pm ) To make matters even more confusing , there are two Mark Taylors . I believe the message you forwarded to me belongs to the Mark Taylor at EI ( based in London ) . Unfortunately , I ca n't forward your message to him directly ( there seems to be a problem with the attachment ) . If you still have it , can you send it to him at " Mark EI.London Taylor " ? I will take care of it . Thanks for the reminder . Ladies , Enclosed is a worksheet for Ineos Acrylics . Ineos is an English company which has a majority of its operations in the US . Note that the credit thresholds are in US $ , but the MACS are designated in British Pounds . Please send the draft to Troy Black and he will forward to the CP . Please deliver a copy to me as well . Have a great weekend . Max << File : Ineos.xls >> Robbi : I left you a voice mail on Friday . I looked at the UEComm Master and had some comments -- such as our name is wrong , the cross default threshold for us should be US $ and not AUD , and there were a few other questions I had . Marie Hi , Attached are Uecomm 's final comments to the Master Agreement . John Suttle has OK'd Anthony 's latest request w / r. t. the CSA . Could you please send an executable version of the contract to Fred , David , John and me tomorrow ? If they 're OK with it , we 'd like to execute it as soon as possible unless there are any objections . Thanks Pat Pat , Please find attached the Enron Master Agreement . I have inserted the company details of Uecomm as requested . I have also amended the timeframes in the Credit Support Annex to 10 days instead of 2 days . ( Clauses 2 & 3 ) . I have tracked all changes for ease of reference . If these amendmnets are agreeable to you can you please print and arrange for execution . If you have any questions please do not hesitate to give me a call . Regards , Anthony Sill Legal Counsel Uecomm Limited 126 Trenerry Crescent Abbotsford , VIC 3067 . Ph. ( 03 ) 9221 4101 Fax. ( 03 ) 9221 4193 Mob. 0417 575 920 << Enron - UC Master Agreement - 0308.doc >> Turn up your sound a bit . Reminder : Conference Call with ConEd at 1:00 today in Sara 's office - EB 3801A . Nick : Attached for your further handling is the draft form Deemed ISDA between ENA and Ispat Mexicana S.A. de C.V . Please note that the economic provisions have been omitted . Please let me know if you have any questions or need anything else . Marie x33907 Tana : Here 's info on the Elliotts . Marie CONGRATULATIONS !!!!!!! We 've been asking everyday if anyone had heard if the " Babies Elliott " had arrived . Glad to hear that they are all healthy and were a good size , and that Mom is doing well . Look forward to seeing pictures of the little ones . I know you all are going to have so much fun with them . Hope you 've been storing up sleep , cause it looks like you wo n't be getting much for a while . Again , congratulations . These three little ones do n't realize how lucky they are to have such a nice Dad , but I 'm sure they 'll find out soon . Take care Marie Ladies and gentlemen , This is just to let you know that Emma gave birth at week 34 on Friday , 6th July , to our triplets : Benjamin James - at 12.45 pm - 3 lbs 4 ozs Toby William - 12.46 pm - 4 lbs Hannah May - 12.48 pm - 3 lbs 15 ozs . Although small , they are all " fully functioning " and very well - they are in the lowest level of special care ( and they will probably be in there for another two to four weeks ) until they can feed properly and maintain their weights . Emma is fine , too - very well !! All the best and kind regards Mark OOPS ! Attached are the fax cover pages for each of the Nylon and Polykron Deemed ISDAs I just sent you . Marie Rebecca : I am attaching a clean and blacklined version of the proposed resolutions authorizing the opening of brokerage accounts . I have attempted to revise them to make them clearer . Perhaps Jim Armogida can assist in revising them as I am sure he is more familiar with the way Enron Corp. likes their resolutions drafted than we are . Let me know if you have any questions or need anything else . Marie x33907 Turn up your sound a bit . Hi , Liz : Thanks ! Marie Marie Heard Senior Legal Specialist Ms. Marquez : I am following up regarding the status of our comments to the form of guaranty for Pemex that you provided to Lucy Ortiz . Please do not hesitate to contact either Francisco Pinto - Leite or me with any questions or comments . We look forward to hearing your comments . Marie Heard Senior Legal Specialist Ms. Marquez : Attached are an original and blacklined copy of your form of guaranty , which reflect our comments . Please do not hesitate to contact either Francisco Pinto - Leite , Senior Counsel ( 713/345-7942 ; francisco.pinto.leite@enron.com ) or me with any questions or comments . Thank you for your assistance . Marie Heard Senior Legal Specialist Tanya : I received this draft from Niagara Mohawk Marketing , Inc. for our review . Will you pass along to the appropriate person ? Thanks ! Marie Marie - per our conversation yesterday afternoon , attached are proposed drafts of the Schedule and the Para. 13 relative to the above . Having spoken with Dennis Goldmann , I am advised that there are currently 2 Guaranties in place in the sum of $ 8 M each : one by Niagara Mohawk Holdings Inc f / b / o Enron , and one by Enron Inc. f / b / o Niagara Mohawk Energy Marketing . I am told that our respective credit departments want to raise the credit lines to $ 10 M for each party , but to effect that we will have to modify the existing Guaranties accordingly . Let me know if this is your understanding , as well . After you have had the chance to review the attached , please send me a marked - up draft and we can discuss our concerns from there . Should you have any questions , feel free to call me . I can be reached at 315-460-3344 . Any credit concerns can be discussed with Dennis Goldmann , who can be reached at 315-460-3349 . I look forward to hearing from you . Patty Snyder ( See attached file : ENRON - SCHEDULE ( nmemdrft8-7-01 ) .doc ) ( See attached file : ENRON - Para13 ( nmemdrft8-7-01 ) .doc ) - ENRON - SCHEDULE ( nmemdrft8-7-01 ) .doc - ENRON - Para13 ( nmemdrft8-7-01 ) .doc Hi Marie Did you get a chance to find those GTC's for ENA that you can forward this way ? Thanks , I know you are busy . Tracy Jeff : Attached are the draft Schedule to the ISDA Master Agreement , together with Paragraph 13 to the ISDA Credit Support Annex . I am putting the credit worksheet on the fax machine to you as soon as I send this message . Let me know if you have any questions or need anything else . Marie x33907 Hi everyone , I just got of the phone with Hai and he told me how to make an adjustment on a day to day basis in regards to incorrect liquidations but he also explained this is just to make the daily P&L #'s right , if nothing were done the month end P&L would still somehow work out because adjustments would be made . Does this mean that for June and for a certain portion of July we should not do anything and just make adjustments on a going forward basis ( and assume everything will work out at month end ) ? If this is the case I would like someone to walk me through June to see if the numbers did really work themselves out as there was a large swing in second order on June 29 that was not adjusted for . Let me know if one of you could help me do this . Karim . Evidently , this a problem that Stacey White has been aware of for a couple of months now . There was a change made in the coding for the delta position and this has somehow messed up the liq value . John John , Karim , I 'm now looking closely at the option liquidation problems . I believe that there might be a sign - flipping problem for PUTS that 's causing this whole issue . I 'll keep you posted . Karim - this 's likely the explanation to your other question ... I 'll get back to you as soon as I have more info ( hopefully later today ) Marcelo L. Meira Sr IT Developer Enron Networks - Houston , TX ( 713 ) 345-3436 The post id I am looking at for Calgary is 11608 . I am looking at the option liquidation report and all of the $ 65 puts are in the money and the $ 75 call is also in the money . Should n't all the liquidation values from the beginning of the month be a negative ( representing positive liquidation ) for the puts ? The liq value for the call is CORRECT . John Karim , I do n't want to wait till month end , let 's adjust the numbers now and for the June 29 2nd order , let s take that value into June since it relates to July puts . Hi everyone , I just got of the phone with Hai and he told me how to make an adjustment on a day to day basis in regards to incorrect liquidations but he also explained this is just to make the daily P&L #'s right , if nothing were done the month end P&L would still somehow work out because adjustments would be made . Does this mean that for June and for a certain portion of July we should not do anything and just make adjustments on a going forward basis ( and assume everything will work out at month end ) ? If this is the case I would like someone to walk me through June to see if the numbers did really work themselves out as there was a large swing in second order on June 29 that was not adjusted for . Let me know if one of you could help me do this . Karim . Evidently , this a problem that Stacey White has been aware of for a couple of months now . There was a change made in the coding for the delta position and this has somehow messed up the liq value . John John , Karim , I 'm now looking closely at the option liquidation problems . I believe that there might be a sign - flipping problem for PUTS that 's causing this whole issue . I 'll keep you posted . Karim - this 's likely the explanation to your other question ... I 'll get back to you as soon as I have more info ( hopefully later today ) Marcelo L. Meira Sr IT Developer Enron Networks - Houston , TX ( 713 ) 345-3436 The post id I am looking at for Calgary is 11608 . I am looking at the option liquidation report and all of the $ 65 puts are in the money and the $ 75 call is also in the money . Should n't all the liquidation values from the beginning of the month be a negative ( representing positive liquidation ) for the puts ? The liq value for the call is CORRECT . John unable to attend at that time due to a prior appointment , I can meet with you individually later some time OK , now that I 've got your attention - I really am offering free lunch ! I would like to informally get together with you on Wednesday , July 18 at 11:45 am - 1:00 pm ( max ) to talk about your recruiting experience with Enron Canada . We 're gearing up for our 2001 / 02 recruiting campaign and we think your experience will help us define what works best and what can be improved in our process . For those of you in Toronto , I apologize for not being able to schedule this over your lunch time ! However , if you can wait til 2:00 pm to eat , go ahead and grab something and expense it ! We 'll hook you guys in by videoconference . I 've booked Videoconference Room # 1 . Please let me know whether or not you can attend so I can order enough food . Thanks !! should be ok Kindly confirm your availability to attend an Analyst and Associate Recruiting Meeting scheduled for Thursday , July 26th at 2:00 p.m. ( 4:00 p.m. Toronto time ) . This meeting should not take more than one hour . The Toronto office will be video conferenced in . Regards , Nella Let s try before Fri , as I am planning to take that day off Attached is the revised draft paper that reflects our conference call with Bob Fagan earlier this week . I propose we have a conference call with Bob Fagan on Fri July 20 at 1:00 pm Calgary time to discuss any areas of concern / confusion you may have . Also , would those of you who have not responded to me via email confirming your acceptance of the terms upon which our four companies have agreed to assume cost responsibility for the TCA work on this . Attached is the letter I originally sent to you on May 10 in this regard . << File : Tabors Conflict Letter Alberta Export 050901.doc >> Regards , Rob Rob , This draft reflects the changes we discussed during our call the other day . I 've also included a redlined draft showing changes . Regards , Bob << Alberta Transmission Access and Pricing Analysis_0712 .doc >> << Alberta Transmission Access and Pricing Analysis_0712 redlined .doc >> - Alberta Transmission Access and Pricing Analysis_0712 .doc << File : Alberta Transmission Access and Pricing Analysis_0712 .doc >> - Alberta Transmission Access and Pricing Analysis_0712 redlined .doc << File : Alberta Transmission Access and Pricing Analysis_0712 redlined .doc >> NO Hi John , With reference to Article 5 , section 5.1 ( b ) , are we going to propose an alternative planned outage to TAU for next year ? Thanks , Mike " Katie Kaplan " < kaplan@iepa.com > 10/27/2000 06:20 PM Please respond to kaplan Greetings : IEP will be hosting a dinner for California Governor Gray Davis on Thursday , December 7 , 2000 at the historic Julia Morgan House in Sacramento . We will be targeting to raise at least $ 100,000 so company contributions will range from $ 10,000 - $ 20,000 per person ( $ 10 k minimum per person ) depending on the number of respondents . We have already received firm commitments from 3 companies . If you are interested in attending please e-mail me as soon as possible . A formal invitation will follow to those who respond . We need responses or direction by no later than COB on Monday , October 30 , 2000 . Please contact me with any questions . Thank you , Katie Kaplan Manager of Policy IEP ( 916 ) 448-9499 Congratulations . Everyone is extremely pleased that you 're joining . Best of luck and very much looking forward to working together . Best , Jeff I 'll believe it when I see it . Seems like a good idea to keep the heat on Hoecker & Co. right up until Nov. 1 . Thanks . I 'm glad they want to follow - up with Steve ( I 've been pushing it ) and I 've got some follow - up as well based on chats I had in the afternoon on Friday with folks post-call . Let 's regroup on Monday . I 'll be in Portland but can call you . Best , Jeff Jeremy Meier < jermeier@earthlink.net > 10/29/2000 11:48 AM Jeff : FYI , we had an instructive rest of the conference call on Friday with Sue and Robbie et al . They indicated they could use Steve 's help face to face at some point . We are following up with Sue and Robbie on a couple legal issues , case law and MSA self - certification language , and let me know if you have additional items . We await approval on the final tariff language and can then file at the CPUC . Let me know what schedule works for you . Also , can you confirm the correct names , email addresses , titles for those new folks on Friday 's call : Robbie Rossi , Michelle , Melissa Lloyd ? Thanks . Jeremy Meier Blumenfeld & Cohen Attached for your review are draft talking points for the Cal Energy Markets conference I 'm speaking at on Thursday in SF . All comments , suggestions , etc. are appreciated . Thanks . Yes , I would like to participate . Thanks . thanks a million . talk to you then . Lara Leibman@ENRON COMMUNICATIONS 10/31/2000 03:48 PM Here 's the info for calling in -- thanks ! Lara Angie Buis 10/31/00 02:17 PM The call - in number and instructions for the 11/2 8:30 a.m. meeting are as follows : Everyone will dial the toll free number 1-877-331-6867 . All the outside participants will be prompted to enter their access code , which is 600-480 . Wayne , your access code ( room 4434 ) after dialing the toll free number will be 857-771 . I have asked for 4 outside ports and should anyone else need to join in , they may do so with the access code and without operator assistance . The duration of the call is 3.5 hours . The call will terminate once everyone has hung up . Please let me know if any of you need additional information . Thanks . Angie Buis EBS - Tax x-37097 Attached for your review are copies of the settlement documents that were filed today in the Gas Industry Restructuring / Natural Gas Strategy proceeding , including the Motion for Approval of the Comprehensive Settlement that is supported by thirty signatories to the Comprehensive Settlement , the Comprehensive Settlement document itself , and the various appendices to the settlement .? Because a number of the declarations and signature pages are not yet available electronically , they have not been included with this note .? Hard copies of the Comprehensive Settlement , including all declarations and signature pages , are being shipped tonight via US mail to all parties on the service list .? Additional printed copies should be available within the next day or so and I will make them available to all of you - just let me know how many copies you need . I would like to thank all of the parties who participated in this settlement process .? You have all devoted considerable time , resources and spirit in the preparation of this document - and it shows .? We now have a settlement before the Commission that includes ratepayer advocates , commercial and industrial customers , electric generators , marketers , shippers , independent storage providers ,? gas suppliers ,? producers , utilities , aggregators , pipeline companies , wholesale customers , municipalities , and retail mass marketers , among others .? While we should be proud of our accomplishment , we now must turn to the task of getting our testimony ready by May 5 deadline .? Assignments have already been made and I will schedule a conference call later this week to discuss related details .? So much for resting on our laurels .? Once again , thank you all for an outstanding accomplishment . << ld2d-#69366-1.DOC >> << ld2d-#69345-1.DOC >> ? << ld2d-#69397-1.DOC >> << ld2d-#69396-1.DOC >> << ld2d-#69377-1.XLS >> << ld2d-#69381-1.DOC >> << ld2d-#69366-1.DOC >> << ld2d-#69336-1.XLS >> << Primary Rights 4-12 .doc >> << ld2d-#69334-1.DOC >> << ld2d-#69345-1.DOC >> - ld2d-#69366-1.DOC - ld2d-#69345-1.DOC - ld2d-#69397-1.DOC - ld2d-#69396-1.DOC - ld2d-#69377-1.XLS - ld2d-#69381-1.DOC - ld2d-#69366-1.DOC - ld2d-#69336-1.XLS - Primary Rights 4-12 .doc - ld2d-#69334-1.DOC - ld2d-#69345-1.DOC Severin Borenstein E.T. Grether Professor of Business Administration and Public Policy Director Haas School of Business U.C. Energy Institute University of California 2539 Channing Way Berkeley , CA 94720-1900 Berkeley , CA 94720-5180 ( p ) 510-642-3689 ( p ) 510-642-5145 ( f ) 707-885-2508 http://www.ucei.berkeley.edu/ucei Email : borenste@haas.berkeley.edu WWW : http://haas.berkeley.edu/~borenste Attached is a rough draft of my talking points for a panel I 'll be on at a CEM conference in SF on Thursday afternoon . Have distributed to Western GA team ( plus Steffes ) for comment and thought you may have some , too . Topic for panel , " PUC Priorities . " Goal is to ( politely ? ) refute Loretta Lynch 's and Carl Woods ' continued assertions that 1 ) California 's move to deregulate was based solely on ideology with no basis in fact and 2 ) the solution is to turn back the clock to command - and - control regulation . The FERC order tomorrow is likely to alter the points somewhat . Comments are much appreciated . Best , Jeff Chris : As we discussed yesterday , Laird and I spoke and we think that the presentation is good to go for Thursday . We 'll need to update the numbers for the offer we made to S.D. last week . You had mentioned that you might want to include a shaped product . You still considering it ? Let us know and we can add it , and make any other changes you 'd like to make at this end . My flight gets into S.D. at at 8:35 on southwest . Best , Jeff Sandi sez it 's actually happening at 10 AM and it 's renewable - focused . David Forster 03/08/2000 09:45 AM Fyi Dear Justin Marly asked me to respond to you . As you know , the suffix ONLINE is purely descriptive and now used by many companies . Therefore , any trade mark registration that incorporates the word ONLINE as a suffix in the way that you use it will not enable its owner to prevent others from using the word ONLINE . Given the above , if you have adequate protection for the word ENRON ( which covers the services that you offer on - line as well as your core activities ) , I 'd say that another application for the words ENRON ONLINE is probably unnecessary . However , if you use a particular logo for the on - line service , that should be registered . I hope the above is clear . Jonathan Day Marly , If you could respond to me on this request , thanks Justin Paul Goddard 08/03/2000 11:35 Can one of you give me a quick call to discuss . I 'm @ X37047 . Thanks . I believe we are to some extent already protected with " Enron " proceeded with anything , but EnronOnline ( TM ) , etc. just affords us more protection . I assume this is akin to why McDonald 's trademarks " Mc " Everything ? David Forster 08/03/2000 01:50 Paul , Can you please give me a call to discuss trademarking ? i.e. Are we covered if we proceed a word with " Enron " ? e.g. : EnronEAuction . If we are covered , then was it necessary to register EnronOnline ? Thanks , Dave ____________________________________________________________ This message is confidential . It may also be privileged or otherwise protected by work product immunity or other legal rules . If you have received it by mistake please let us know by reply and then delete it from your system ; you should not copy the message or disclose its contents to anyone . ____________________________________________________________ Per my conversation with Edmund this morning , we are moving the following countries to the non-approved list : Austria , Belgium , Croatia , Czech Republic , Denmark , Poland , Portugal , Romania , Singapore , and Slovenia . Below is the list , now updated to reflect this change . Jurisdictions which are are approved to trade credit derivatives : Finland , Germany , Norway , Sweden , Switzerland , the U.K , and the U.S. . Jurisdictions which are not approved to trade credit derivatives include : Austria , Belgium , Canada , Croatia , Czech Republic , Denmark , France , Gibraltar , Ireland , Italy , Poland , Portugal , Romania , Scotland , Singapore , Slovenia , Spain , and The Netherlands . For banks incorporated in a non-approved jurisdiction , it may be possible for them to trade out of a branch located in an approved jurisdiction ( i.e. U.S. and U.K. branches ) . This would have to be determined on a case by case basis . Please let me know if there are any changes to this list . Sent by : Nella Cappelletto Yes , we should add compliance with OTC Derivatives and / or Commodity Contracts and Qualified Party requirements of the Securities Act ( Alberta ) , Securities Act ( British Columbia ) and Securities Act ( Ontario ) . Thanks , Peter With regard to our annual review of this list of laws we need to comply with , do we not want to add the Canadian provinces new " eligible swap participant " equivalant rules ? Molly Harris 03/08/2000 05:37 PM Please find attached Credit 's EOL responses for 3/8/00 . Regards Molly You are the best ! Why does it always have to be my deals ...?!!! We 've received a personal invitation to a NYMEX Crawfish Boil on April 3 at 5:00 at Garden in the Heights at 3926 Feagan . The cause of this celebration is the 10th anniversary of the Nat Gas futures contract . It would be nice if Shankman and John Arnold could attend . Perhaps you can give them a personal invitation ... We have received the amendment to the BC Gas ISDA Master executed by BC Gas , which adds the Canadian Securities Representation , so we do n't have to add the rep into every confirm . BC Gas wo n't sign the confirms with the rep in , and this has caused much difficulties . I am going to count it as signed , since BC Gas has signed , but we still need it to be signed by ECC . Can you get it signed ASAP and back to me . Much thanks . We have received the executed Amendment to the Subscription Agreement with WeatherTrade , Inc. dated March 2 , 2000 . This Amendment amends the Transaction Fee referenced in subparagraph ( c ) of the Fee Schedule to the Subscription Agreement . Copies will be distributed . Updating another blue file because Susan B. , this time , has not updated it to reference mergers & name changes ! It appears you missed some cpys on the referenced list because Tom had the freeze panel button on , and you probably did n't see them at first . I did n't either until I clicked on the down button and they popped up . When you have a minute , I 'll give me a call and I 'll come around and show you how to unfreeze the panel . I spoke to Edmund to get the scoop on what we are going to be doing on the confirms for Credit Derivatives , and he said that his current understanding is that all of the confirms will be done out of London . I communicated that to Bob Bowen . He also said that London was going to be hiring 120 people to deal with the Credit Derivatives business . Wow ! Carol , will you handle this or Mark ? Tori Kuykendall 03/09/2000 03:51 PM hi mark - i 'm a gas trader on the west desk and one of my customers had some issues with our electronic trading agreement . the company is Arco Products , adn their comments are on the attached file . could you take a look at this and give me an update . thanks . Torrey , as promised I have attached ARCO 's suggested revisions to the Enron online trading agreement . I look forward to working toward a mutually satisfactory agreement in this new and thorny area of e-commerce contracting . Dave ( See attached file : ETA_revision0307.doc ) - ETA_revision0307.doc We have received the executed First Amendment to ISDA Master Agreement dated as of December 1 , 1999 . This amendment adds the British Columbia Securities Act representation to the master . Copies will be distributed . Confirmation Desk : you can stop adding the rep to the confirms now . Molly Harris 03/09/2000 05:39 PM Please find attached Credit 's EOL responses for 3/9/00 . Regards , Molly Here 's the list with the missing counterparties . Molly Harris 03/08/2000 05:37 PM Please find attached Credit 's EOL responses for 3/8/00 . Regards Molly Yeah ! Probably ... I just got a call from Dave and Frank and they tell me I have a whole week this time to approve the whole counterparty list to trade Australian financial power . I 'll need to talk to you about his Monday . Hey guys , take Monday off ! Molly Harris 03/10/2000 04:28 PM Please note Credit has no EOL responses for 3/10/00 . Regards Molly Mike Jordan 04/04/2001 09:27 AM Please find attached the most recent update for Merchanting Metals . In summary the planned systems changes and manual substantiation efforts are behind schedule . Additional resources are being allocated and the situation is being closely monitored ( both for quarter end signoff and on going operations ) . Please contact me if you require any additional information Mike Mike Jordan 03/04/2001 16:29 The intention of the efforts and actions documented in my earlier update ( see attached email ) was to provide a robust position signoff process for total metal tonnage , spread and brand and location a timely substantiation of stock on balance sheet forward MTM debtors and creditor balances OBSF transactional values and a reconciliation of the barclays intercompany account Despite the best efforts of IT , continuing problems with the AS400 application , a better understanding of the inconsistency between stock reconciliation reports , and concerns over the useability of the outright stock screen enquiry are such that I am currently not confident of delivering sufficient accurate information to AA to satisfy their audit requirements - which at a macro level is the transparent audit trail between stock and forward positions to full accounting values . Consequently I need to inform you of , and / or require your approval for , the following : I will discuss with AA the following that OBSF values within the extended trial balance may be misstated due to data issues ( above and beyond existing conversations with AA on model simplifications ) that there are reconciling differences between trader position analyses , AS400 on screen enquiries and the formal global position report ( these differences are at present not understood but would need to be provided to AA within the audit timetable ) an outline of the internal balance sheet review process described in my earlier note which must now be reprioritised and rescoped ( see MO work ) The creation of an incentive payment pool ( possibly via personal best awards ) for key Metals staff who continue to work exceptionally unsociable hours to meet the above stated objectives The signoff for additional permanent ' Enron ' headcount who will ' duplicate ' certain key position control processes ultimately replacing some existing Traffic staff A reconciling difference of $ 15 mm exists between the reported DPR and the final accounting p&l as generated on the AS400 . We will continue to investigate potential misstatements in the system p&l , as a result of data or system valuation problems , within the month end reporting timeframe . However , this difference may need to be adjusted for following a final review and signoff of system p&l values with traders . The recall of all OBSF stock in early April and retention on balance sheet ( reduced where economically viable ) until positions are fully reconciled and repeatable daily signoff process can be instigated . Middle Office work being prioritised is as follows the stock circularisation initiated for close of business 23rd - with full reconciliation of returns to current system data by traffic / co-ordination an audit of the stock and forward valuation report for the 30th ( replacing planned 23rd review due to system issues ) , requiring full download of contract detail for later reference reconciliation of stock movements between 23rd and 30th sample tests of vanilla forward transactions detailed position analysis of all OBSF contracts that must be reconciled to Barclays documentation spreadsheet recalculation of OBSF option premium utilising the above manually created position analysis the circularisation of Barclays intercompany account and comparison to our cut off and substantiation analysis the debtors / creditors partial circularisation initiated for close of business 23rd I will be in touch directly re the items needing approval Regards Mike Mike Jordan 21/03/2001 18:20 Several related issues have resulted in an increase in the level of operating risk for the Merchanting Metals business . Complexities surrounding the operation of the Off Balance Sheet Facility ( " OBSF " ) which commenced two weeks before the year end . The uncertainty generated by the revocation of AA 's signoff for the facility late in the year end audit . The discovery of a number of ' bugs ' within the AS400 Merchanting code , arising from the release of OBSF designed functionality , which compounded the operational burden of supporting the OBSF . The requirement to amend the operational process and OBSF IT code as a result of the current renegotiation of the OBSF with Barclays ( and AA ) . The senior IT developer for Merchanting has resigned and been sent on gardening leave . The Corporate requirement to lower working capital usage for the Merchanting business irrespective of the above parochial business issues . Various mitigating actions have been and will be taken to provide focus , gain comfort over control levels and to provide assurance to senior management as to the accuracy of the Q1 DPR and business balance sheet . The implementation for SAP for the Merchanting business has been delayed and effectively decoupled from the higher risk ( higher benefit ) Brokerage implementation - benefit is to provide sole focus on OBSF for IT Merchanting developers . The AR / AP SAP data quality reviews for both businesses are continuing so as to provide a detailed analysis as at end Q1 . Middle Office have instigated a new daily working capital report process tracking cash settlement / funding data to working capital components for all Metals businesses . An enhanced position signoff process will be implemented prior to end Q1 covering gross tonnage , spread positions and summarised analyses for brand and locations . The necessary report functionality should be available within the AS400 , however contingencies have been initiated to build tactical VBA / excel reports outside of the AS400 but using AS400 data downloads . User requests for additional AS400 functionality and reports have been aggressively prioritised and a code freeze will commence prior to the end of Q1 following the delivery of three reports determined as minimum requirements for the support of OBSF . A resubstantiation of the full Q1 DPR will be completed by the Risk control staff reconciling the full trial balances between Q1 open and Q1 close A full internal balance sheet review will be completed within the Q1 audit timetable which incorporates A full circularisation of inventory balances , and matching to source documentation within Enron Inspection of certain of the above inventory balances , by third party inspectors , where there is an expectation that circularisation replies will not be received on a timely basis Substantive checks back to source contract documentation for the forward priced and unpriced positions report ( spot checking the key position report signed off by the traders ) Full reconciliation and recalculation of OBSF option premium values Full reconciliation of contracts within the OBSF to Barclays documentation ( thereby substantiating existence of stock that we have option to purchase ) and to AS400 Barclays account A risk based debtors review - matching to source documentation , where applicable , and any subsequent post quarter end cash movements A full substantiation of creditors to internal ( contract commitments ) or external documentation ( invoices / request for payment ) A full reconciliation of intercompany accounts A full substantive reconciliation of cash and funding accounts I intend to provide weekly updates on the status of the above actions during April If you have any questions please call me on x34703 Regards Mike Dr. Harris : I would like to thank you for personally taking the time to closely review my application . Though I am disappointed with the results I am still determined to attend The TEXAS Graduate School of Business next year . I understand how competitive the process has become , but I felt that with my work experiences , recommendations , personality , extracurricular activities , etc. that this would compensate for my disability . After talking with Professors Titman , Ronn , Brown and Jemison , I was sure that the School was the right place to get the education I was looking for . I am still certain that the School is the best place for getting a great graduate - level education , so I want you to know that I am going to do whatever it takes to get in next year . I plan on taking two or three graduate level finance courses at the University of Houston this Summer and Fall to demonstrate to the Admissions committee that I can compete at the graduate level . I also plan on retaking the GMAT test . Due to my disability , this will be a monumental task ; but I am determined to prove to the Committee that I can be successful at The TEXAS Graduate School of Business . I would like to come down to Austin this spring to meet with you to further discuss my application file and to personally meet you . If you think of anything else I can do to strengthen my overall application file for next year , please let me know . Take care and hope to hear from you soon . Sincerely , Ben Rogers Professor Ronn : I would like to thank you for taking the time to recommend me to the MBA Program . In the end , the results were not favorable . I understand that it is a competitive process , but I felt that with my work experiences , recommendations , extracurricular activities , etc. , that this would help my chances and possibly compensate for my disability . After talking with you and Professors Titman , Brown and Jemison , I was sure that UT was the right place to continue learning about energy - finance . I am still sure that UT is the place for getting an excellent graduate - level education , so I want you to know that I am going to do whatever it takes to get in next year . I plan on taking two or three graduate level finance courses at the University of Houston this Summer and Fall to demonstrate to the Admissions office that I can compete at this level . I also plan on trying to retake the GMAT test . Due to my disability , this will be a monumental task , but I am determined to prove to the Admissions commitee that I can excel with the work at The Texas University Graduate School of Business . Thanks again for taking the time to listen and talk with me . It has been a pleasure meeting you and I hope we can continue to talk about energy and finance in the future . Also , if you can think of anything else I can do to strengthen my overall application file for next year , please let me know . Take care and hope to hear from you soon . Sincerely , Ben Rogers Professor Titman : I would like to thank you for taking the time to recommend me to the MBA Program . In the end , the results were not favorable . I understand that it is a competitive process , but I felt that with my work experiences , recommendations , extrcurricular activities , etc. , that this would help my chances and possibly compensate my disability . After talking with you and Professors Ronn , Brown and Jemison , I was sure that UT was the right place to continue learning about energy - finance . I am still sure that UT is the place for getting an excellent graduate - level education , so I want you to know that I am going to do what ever it takes to get in next year . I plan on taking a couple of graduate level finance courses at the University of Houston this Summer and Fall to demonstrate to the Admissions office that I can compete at this level . I also plan on trying to retake the GMAT test . Due to my disability , this will be a monumental task , but I am determined to prove to the Admissions committment that I can do the work at The Texas University Graduate School of Business . Also , I would like to continue our dialague regarding creating an Energy - Finance Private Equity Fund at UT . I know that with my industry - wide and investment banking contacts that I can help raise capital for the fund . I am very interested in energy - finance and think that your idea is a very good . Thanks again for taking the time to listen and talk with me . It has been a pleasure to meet with you and I hope we can continue to talk about energy and finance in the future . Also , if you think of anything else I can do to strengthen my overall application file for next year , please let me know . Take care and hope to hear from you soon . Sincerely , Ben Rogers Let me know if you have any questions . Thanks Ben Sorry about that , I was working on the Teco O&M costs . Thanks Ben Please send me an excel spreadsheet which depicts the value that you see associated with the heat rate spread option . I want to make sure that I understand exactly how you propose valuing the transaction and how this value would be booked . As such , please provide the following detail : Will we be valuing / booking a series of monthly call options or a series of daily call options ? What power curve are we valuing the deal against - PJM East or West Hub ? Please send me the current fuel curve that you are converting to $ / MWh to value the deal ? What volatilities are you using to value the options - monthly volatilities or intra-day volatilities or a blend of the two ( if blending please show me what formula you using to blend the two vols ) ? What expiration date are you using , i.e. : for monthly call options the 15th of the relevant month , and for daily options ? What correlation are you assuming , 15 % flat for twenty years ? Are you deducting all operating expenses from the value of the option ? Are you using the " SPRDOPT " Exotic Options function to value the option ? Are you using the $ / MWh VOM dollar amount as your strike ? Has Don provided the fixed payment stream ? This stream should be covering both P&I and not just principal . Yvan , and Ben , please provide answers to these question via written correspondence so that their is limited probability of misunderstanding . Thank you both very much for your time and help thus far . Furthermore , I would like to reiterate that RAC 's goal , prior to quoting any credit reserve , is to be 100 % confident that : ( i ) the methodology that is being employed is consistent among the internal groups ; and ( ii ) the inherent value of the price risk management contracts matches . This enables RAC to manage the associated risk during the life of the transaction both effectively and appropriately . Regards , Christopher Randy , this is the issue I left you the voice mail on . Article 6 of the Gallup Compression Services Agreement ( which I am sending to you separately ) with ECS obligates ECS to " work in good faith with CDEC " to establish an automated system that would automatically have alerted us to peak loading conditions on CDEC 's system . We had a pretty good idea when we signed the contract that ECS would not be able to complete that by the contract start date , so we negotiated a fall back plan under which ECS is obligated to " assist [ Transwestern ] in developing a manual system to accomplish the same result and will hold harmless and keep [ Transwestern ] whole for all cost and expenses " associated with the manual system . We will fight with them about who owes the $ 200 k that James mentions below based on their failure to " assist " us in managing the cost . In the mean time , we need to make sure that we are doing everything we can to get a handle on the situation to mitigate future costs . Do we have someone who is watching this out there ? We are running so full tilt on TW that we may not have as much flexibiltiy to manage this situation as we expected , but let me know what we can do . James had heard that one hold up was the absence of a confidentiality agreement -- I guess between ECS and Transwestern -- that would permit ECS to communicate to us the details on how to access teh key info. from CDEC . That sounds like a BS excuse from ECS , but it that 's what they are saying , let me know and we can figure out a solution . Thanks . DF James Centilli 12/14/2000 02:49 PM Would you please contact Gerald Nemec and review the Gallup Compression Service Contract in respect to the Load Control Management . My understanding was that ECS was to provide a means to access CDEC 's online profile in order for us to make a decision to avoid running the compressor during CDEC 's peak load periods . We have not received access to this information which has resulted so far in additional electric cost of $ 200,987.33 for the period of July through September . Additional cost will be incurred for the remainder of this year , that I have not been able to review yet . This cost is averaging $ 79,000 per month if we continue to run the compressor as we have in August and September . Good point , but I 'm comfortable we 're covered because our bidders were all bidding on a chunk of capacity and primary points . They are deemed to be on notice that they had alternate point rights ( it s in the tariff ) and if they wanted to submit a bid that had a different rate for primaries and alternates , they could have done so . None of them did , and most importantly , the winning bidders did not . Our letter agreement simply memorializes that we will charge the same negotiated rate whether the gas flows on primaries or alternates . I assume from your message you are OK with this and they can get it nailed down ? DF I just got done looking at the underlying contract language as set forth in the pro forma service agreement in the tariff and it specifically says that the max rate would apply unless a discount or negotiated rate has been agreed to . My concern with adding the language below is , could it be argued that not everyone knew the rate would or could apply at any point , since we just stated Topack and Needles and if they knew they might have bid a different rate ?? Susan Scott 01/11/2001 02:42 PM After discussions with the commercial group I propose that that redlined language be added to the attached Dynegy agreement and to the 4 other negotiated rate agreements we 've done . If there are any objections you need to get back to me ASAP . pls print . df In discussion with Dave , we thought it would be good to put this together in a format of questions and answers . However , as you will see , the questions I thought of got kinda long - but I think we need answers for all of them . One thought is to have just the agenda as a couple topics and then lead in with the first two questions as I 've listed . Please provide me your thoughts asap . MK whasssup ? Here it is . Thanks . DF Here is the attachment ... Attached is my draft of a request for rehearing . It incorporates Mr. Stojic 's and Mr. Kelly 's initial comments . Please review it and let me know if you have any comments on or before Tuesday afternoon ( I will be out of the office Monday ) . Thank you ! OK . DF DENISE LAGESSE 01/12/2001 10:34 AM Please approve Susan 's attached expense report and forward to accounting with a cc : to me . Thanks ! Forgot to cc you . df Drew Fossum 01/12/2001 04:37 PM OK . DF DENISE LAGESSE 01/12/2001 10:34 AM Please approve Susan 's attached expense report and forward to accounting with a cc : to me . Thanks ! Lou , do we have any sort of policy on requests like this ? Lee Huber made the same request last year and we gave her the chair ( she only wanted one , however ) . Norma , any thoughts ? DENISE LAGESSE 01/12/2001 01:14 PM Susan Scott would like authorization to order an Aeron chair for each of her offices - on 47 and 41 . This particular chair is designed to help with back problems , which she has . Many people at Enron already have this type of chair , but we rarely , if ever , have a surplus because they are so popular . The cost is $ 567.77 per chair plus tax . Please approve the purchase of two . Thanks ! sorry , i left lou off of the message . Drew Fossum 01/13/2001 09:45 AM Lou , do we have any sort of policy on requests like this ? Lee Huber made the same request last year and we gave her the chair ( she only wanted one , however ) . Norma , any thoughts ? DENISE LAGESSE 01/12/2001 01:14 PM Susan Scott would like authorization to order an Aeron chair for each of her offices - on 47 and 41 . This particular chair is designed to help with back problems , which she has . Many people at Enron already have this type of chair , but we rarely , if ever , have a surplus because they are so popular . The cost is $ 567.77 per chair plus tax . Please approve the purchase of two . Thanks ! I believe you got a copy of the John Sommer letter to producers dated Jan 6 that MKM 's spies intercepted . She forwarded the Sommer letter to Stan and discussed it with him . Dari and I vented our aggravation by drafting the attached letter to Gibson and Kyle complaining of Sommer 's duplicity , but after tempers cooled , MKM and I decided not to send it to Stan or urge him to send a written response . As it stands , MKM and I will probably bring it up with Sommer in OK City and strongly suggest the importance of coordinated communication to the producers . Stan may also bring the letter up orally next time he 's on the phonne with Gibson or Kyle as an example of how not to handle this situation . Yea -- it was outstanding news ! What a hoss . Ca n't catch you this time but 14721 keep me posted on your next trip . DF Evan -- Who is responsible for completing all paperwork for entering a new market ? Is it someone on your team or someone from CEC ? There have been some issues with getting everything coordinated lately and I wanted to make sure that we knew who was on point . Jim Am I scheduled to attend ? Jim The next meeting of the CAEM Board of Directors will be held on Wednesday , September 12 , at the Grand Hyatt Hotel in Washington , DC . The meeting is being held in conjunction with the third meeting of our DISCO of the Future Forum . ( Please visit our newly updated website www.caem.org for more information on the DISCO Forum . ) Following the Board meeting on Wednesday , you are invited to join with members of the DISCO Forum for a Wednesday evening reception and dinner , including a guest speaker . Board members are also invited to join in the substantive session of the DISCO Forum on Thursday , September 13 . Because of an international medical convention ongoing in Washington at the same time as our meetings , the Grand Hyatt unfortunately is already booked . However , we have reserved a block of rooms at the nearby Wyndham Hotel . To reserve one of these rooms , you must inform the Wyndham staff that you are part of the CAEM group . If you should decide to arrange lodging at a different hotel , please do so quickly as there is limited availability in all surrounding hotels . We will be making the Wyndham rooms available to members of the DISCO Forum on July 20 . If you have any questions or require any assistance at all , please contact Hope Duncan at 202.739.0134 or Jeff Mangold at 703.729.2710 . We are looking forward to seeing you on September 12 . Hotel Information : Grand Hyatt Hotel 1000 H Street NW Washington DC 20001 Phone : 202.582.1234 or 1.800.233.1234 Fax : 202.637.4781 Website : http://washington.hyatt.com/wasgh/index.html Wyndham Washington DC 1400 M Street NW Washington , DC 20005 Phone : 202.429.1700 or 1.877.999.3223 Fax : 202.785.0786 Website : http://www.wyndham.com/Washington_DC/default.cfm correct . Is this correct ? If so , I will handle it . Thanks Jim . Lora Sullivan@ENRON 07/19/2001 03:31 PM Dear Linda , We are receiving invoices from Ace Federal Reporters for transcripts of the recent FERC settlement conferences . Linda Robertson says they should be charged to Jim Steffes ' cost center , etc . Do you want me to send the invoices to you ? Let me know . Many thanks . Lora Lora Sullivan Federal Government Affairs Representative Enron 1775 Eye Street , NW Suite 800 Washington , DC 20006 202-466-9142 202-828-3372 ( fax ) email : lora.sullivan@enron.com < Embedded Picture ( Device Independent Bitmap ) > I 'm in all week . Jim Can we visit about what went on with Ursula at the PRC meeting when you catch up ? BRADLEY JR , ROBERT L , A revised version of the Evaluation form for Associates and Analysts is attached below . Please disregard and destroy the form you received on July 2 , as well as any blank forms retrieved from the PEP system prior to that date . Please use the attached for Associate and Analyst evaluations . All Evaluations for Associates and Analysts must be completed using this form . - BRENNER , URSULA J.doc << File : BRENNER , URSULA J.doc >> Jean & Thane -- Can we have a meeting this week ( maybe Thursday at 3:30 ) to discuss this ? Jim We do need a formal plan . We have been working closely together to identify the issues as they develop and propose solutions . Doug has been providing us with the necessary specific market information . We have been successful in communicating that information to the new commissioners and Ercot and seeking resolution . The commission is definitely more responsive to market participants that are articulating the issue , providing specific examples and proposing the solution . Grand - standing is ignored . Those who show up with complaints but can not point to specifics are virtually ignored . Those who show up and complain , but are not participating in the working groups and the daily Ercot phone calls , board meetings , etc. are ignored . Doug and I met with the Chairman of PUCT and have had subsequent conversations . Thane and I also visited with him . Pat Wood made a phone call to Tom Noel and told him to get the Texas market fixed . ( Even though he has bigger things to do in D.C. , this is his legacy and he recognizes that if deregulation does not work in Texas , the repercussions could be global . ) Chairman Sibley and Chairman Wolens ( of the Texas legislature ) are also engaged in market developments . We have been working with the State Affairs legislative committee and keeping them apprised . There is an Electric Restructuring Committee hearing scheduled for September 6th or 7th . The forum is expected to be invited testimony only . Those currently listed as invitees are PUCT Commissioners and Ercot 's Sam Jones and Tom Noel . The hearing is focused on the pilot and we have an opportunity to provide some probing questions for Wolens to direct to Sam and Tom . Now that Sibley is not a candidate for Lt. Governor , there is more freedom to open up and ask some difficult questions . Thane is in Austin on Friday , but is available by phone . I will be on a plane to Houston at 8:00 a.m . Can we find another time that works for us to meet ? Thane is in an Ercot PRS meeting Friday from 9:30 until 3:00 . I am available after Rick 's Friday budget meeting ... are you available then ? You are right , we do need a formal plan , Thane has started an initial draft . Thanks , Jean Jean & Thane -- Walking out last night , Kevin Presto indicated that there were games being played in ERCOT with the new market rules and prices in certain markets were not reflective of working markets . Enron needs to use this situation to quickly get our viewpoints up into the PUCT and ERCOT ISO on what is driving these problems and our proposed fixes . If ERCOT goes the way of California - either due to market power or poor market design rules - it will be a bad day for deregulation and for Pat Wood . As important , the new PUCT Commissioners need some help right now in messaging the market . Let 's get them to support constructive solutions that will make a real difference . Jean and Thane , I think that we need a FORMAL PLAN on what to do over the next 3 - 6 months to leverage this situation . I would like to discuss this with you on Friday am . I am free at 8 am on Friday before Rick 's budget meeting . Jim FYI . You may want to discuss with Becky . Jim As an outgrowth of the meeting Leslie and I had with Scott and Hunter a couple of weeks ago , we have begun work to develop an electronic tool that would allow us to provide ongoing summaries of FERC gas activities , and possibly electric activities , in a format that can be linked to the Fundamentals intranet site used by the traders . We envision a format that would provide a brief summary and analysis of the order , filing , etc. with a link to the source document as well for those who would like more detailed information . This would replace the paper copies you and your people are currently getting . Many details remain to be worked out , but we will keep you advised . In the meantime , could you please provide a contact on your side with whom we could discuss technical issues ? What do I need to do ? Jim Vince J Kaminski@ECT 04/30/2001 02:28 PM I am forwarding for your attention the resume of Peter Percell who has an extensive experience in modeling physical flows of natural gas in pipeline systems . Peter is looking currently for a job . I met him last week at the meeting of the Science and Industry Advance with Mathematics society at the University of Houston . The application of recent developments in optimization theory and numerical methods can help Enron to improve further efficiency of our pipeline system and reduce the consumption of compressor fuel . Please , let me know if you interested in introducing Peter to executives in your organization . I shall be glad to make arrangements for an interview . Vince Kaminski Peter Percell < percell@swbell.net > on 04/30/2001 11:16:58 AM I enjoyed your presentation , and meeting you briefly afterwards , at the SIAM Workshop last Friday . I have extensive experience as a technical leader in the design and development of modeling and simulation software products , mostly for the oil and gas pipeline industry . I am looking for a position that can utilize my software development and mathematical skills . Getting out of the narrow confines of the pipeline simulation industry would be a plus . Please consider whether I might fit in your group . Your answer to a question indicated that I have several of the skills you look for . Also , please let me know , by email , the names and contact information of other managers within Enron who might benefit from having someone with my qualifications in their group . Attached are my resume and an addendum covering academic & consulting experience . Publications are available on request . I will call you in a couple of days to follow up on this email . Thank you for your time . Peter Percell 10030 Doliver Drive percell@swbell.net Houston , TX 77042-2016 ( 713 ) 532-3836 voice & fax - Percell, Peter Resume Only.doc - Percell, Peter A & C Exp.doc Sorry I guess I did n't read it very well . It 's ok with me . Ok . Contact Cindy Stark to make an appointment . Nasim H Khan@TRANSREDES 04/30/2001 12:42 PM Stan : I will be completing my tour of duty in Bolivia in September of this year . I am talking to a number of people regarding opportunities for a new assignment back in Houston office . Thought since I will be in Houston , stop by your office for few minutes . NK Stanley Horton@ENRON 04/30/2001 12:35 PM What is the subject matter you wish to visit about ? Nasim H Khan@TRANSREDES 04/30/2001 09:24 AM Stan : I will be in Houston on May 11th and would like to visit with you in early afternoon if possible . Please let me know what time would work for you . Regards , Nasim Khan I figured this posting belonged to one of you . Please see the message from Danny Jones . Danny_Jones%ENRON@eott.com on 04/30/2001 01:39:56 PM Dear Mr. Horton , I have recently been made aware of a help desk analyst job # 0000108806 that has become available in your department . I am currently employed with the aviation department ( hangar attendant ) of enron and would like to use my past knowledge and experience to persue my goals in the technology feild . I am asking respectfully if you could give me a recommendation or referral to ETS technology department . Anything you could do to help further my goals would be appreciated . Respectfully , Danny Jones 281-443-3744 smithjones@ev1.net I have contacted the relevant people of your interest in the job . Danny_Jones%ENRON@eott.com on 04/30/2001 01:39:56 PM Dear Mr. Horton , I have recently been made aware of a help desk analyst job # 0000108806 that has become available in your department . I am currently employed with the aviation department ( hangar attendant ) of enron and would like to use my past knowledge and experience to persue my goals in the technology feild . I am asking respectfully if you could give me a recommendation or referral to ETS technology department . Anything you could do to help further my goals would be appreciated . Respectfully , Danny Jones 281-443-3744 smithjones@ev1.net This is ok by me . Rick looks like a good candidate . Ken Rice@ENRON COMMUNICATIONS 05/01/2001 03:48 PM Executive Committee : We would like to pursue an offer to Rick Fehl prior to the next Executive Committee meeting on May 7 , 2001 . Please forward your comments or questions as soon as possible . You will find attached the recommendation letter and his resume . Regards , Ken Rice & Kevin Hannon This is to advise you that we have available , for your business or personal use , Stan 's four ( 4 ) WNBA Comets tickets . These seats are in Section 104 , Row D , Seats 1 - 4 . Their schedule is listed below . Please let me know if you are interested in any of these games . They will be distributed on a business basis first , then personal use . Preseason Game A : Saturday , May 12 @ 7:30 PM vs. Miami SOL Preseason Game B : Thursday , May 24 @ 7:30 PM vs. Detroit SHOCK Game 1 : Monday , May 28 @ 2:00 PM vs. Los Angeles SPARKS Game 3 : Monday , June 11 @ 7:00 PM vs. Los Angeles SPARKS Game 4 : Thursday , June 14 @ 7:30 PM vs. Portland FIRE Game 5 : Sunday , June 17 @ 1:00 PM vs. Utah STARZZ Game 6 : Tuesday , June 19 @ 7:30 PM vs. Washington MYSTICS Game 7 : Saturday , June 23 @ 3:00 PM vs. Sacramento MONARCHS Game 8 : Monday , July 2 @ 7:30 PM vs. Portland FIRE Game 9 : Friday , July 6 @ 7:30 PM vs. Indiana FEVER Game 10 : Sunday , July 8 @ 1:00 PM vs. Cleveland ROCKERS Game 11 : Tuesday , July 24 @ 7:30 PM vs. Utah STARZZ Game 12 : Saturday , July 28 @ 12:30 PM vs. New York LIBERTY Game 13 : Monday , July 30 @ 7:30 PM vs. Seattle STORM Game 14 : Friday , August 3 @ 7:30 PM vs. Orlando MIRACLE Game 15 : Monday , August 6 @ 7:00 PM vs. Phoenix MERCURY Game 16 : Monday , August 13 @ 7:30 PM vs. Minnesota LYNX Please note that date and time are subject to change ; please check local listings . Thanks , Cindy 713/853-6197 Mailing them to the house iis fine . It will give us some weekend reading ! Thanks . Stephen.Dyer@bakerbotts.com on 05/01/2001 08:50:01 PM Almost done with your drafts . Took me a little longer to review and revise Adam 's first drafts than I had thought ( there 's a lot going on here , as you 'll see soon ) . I expect to send them out to you sometime tomorrow . Since Debbie is a client too , I think I 'll just mail them to your home unless you prefer otherwise . SD Good news . Congratulations and good luck . Hello , Bill ! Stan will attend in person . Cindy Billy Dorsey@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 05/02/2001 12:03 PM Executive Committee Weekly Meeting Date : Monday , May 7th Time : 11:00 a.m. ( CDT ) Location : 50th Floor Boardroom Video : Connections will be established with remote locations upon request . Conf call : AT&T lines have been reserved . Please contact Sherri Sera ( 713/853-5984 ) or Bill Dorsey ( 713/646-6505 ) for the weekly dial - in number and passcode . Please indicate below whether or not you plan to attend this meeting and through what medium . Yes , I will attend in person _______ By video conference from _______ By conference call _______ No , I will not attend _______ *** Please return this e-mail to me with your response by 12:00 p.m. , Friday , May 4th Thank you , Bill Dorsey . Thank you for the invitation . Unfortunately Debbie and I will not be able to attend due to previous committments . Tana , Please review the process below : With divisions , EOL does request a new Password Application for the applicant reflecting the name as you noted below . When the company is set up in the EOL database we link the company to the Parent and reference the CP ID . Sam , please confirm , Global Counterparty also provides the links to establish correlation between the parent and child for our downstream systems . Let me know if this is the appropriate steps that you would like to see . Thanks , Stephanie Sam & Stephanie , Re : Cargill Ferrous International It was my understanding with the EOL Team that all divisions would have the legal incorporated entity as part of the name . Stephanie , I my preference is to kick their Password Application back and get them to change it to read something like " Cargill Ferrous International , a division of Cargill , Inc. " or " Cargill , Inc. acting through its Cargill Ferrous International Division " . Samuel Schott 03/21/2001 01:58 PM Any GCP adjustments will be highlighted in red . Attn. GCP_London : There 's a new EOL Counterparty listed in the UK . Please respond . Best Rgds . Samuel x3-9890 ENW_GCP Please see attached . Harry - are you the right lawyer to look at this ? Robert B Cass 04/16/2001 04:52 PM Please approve the following product type in Datamanager after 11:00 p.m . See the steps for approval below . US Steel Hot Rolled Plate Phy Website Short Description of Product Type : US HR Stl Plt Phy Product Type : Reference Period : The term of the Transaction shall be from the Effective Date ( or start date ) to the Termination Date ( or end date ) . The Effective Date ( or start date ) is 01 Oct 2001 . The Termination Date ( or end date ) is 31 Oct 2001 . Product Additional Information ( example ) : The Transaction is for hot rolled steel with a thickness of 1 " and a width of 72 inches . The transaction is F.O.B. Reserve Marine Terminal in Chicago , Ill Metro Area . F.O.B. refers to the following terms : Seller is responsible for freight , unloading and storage up to and including delivery in warehouse , Buyer is responsible for storage , loading and freight after delivery . The Contract Quantity shall be quantity submitted by Counterparty via EnronOnline ( 5 % greater or lesser allowance at Seller 's option ) . Each calendar month during the term of the Transaction will be a Dispatch Period . Enron will guarantee delivery by the 20th of each scheduled Dispatch Period and accept supply to the 15th of each scheduled Dispatch Period . Payment shall be made , against the receipt of the required documents outlined in the General Terms and Conditions , in the Contractual Currency by telegraphic transfer no later than 30 calendar days after the date on which the Commodity is released to Buyer . Currency : The price is quoted in US Dollars per unit of volume , which will be the Contractual Currency . Unit of Measure : The unit of measure against which the price is quoted shall be net tons ( 2000 lbs ) and the quantity shown shall be in net tons per month . STEPS FOR APPROVAL : click the START button select PROGRAMS select TEST APPLICATIONS select ENRONONLINE CLUSTER ( PROD ) PROCEED WITH USUAL LOGIN / PASSWORD click the Enron Online Production Cluster " START " button select EnronOnLine ( this is the EOL Datamanager ) PROCEED WITH EOL LOGIN / PASSWORD click on the " + " for EnronOnLine click on the " + " for Product Types click on the " + " for " Awaiting Approval " ( OR " Partially Approved " ) select the product requiring review as stated in e-mail above Right " mouse " click on " properties " to view product set - up TO APPROVE : Right mouse click on " Approved " Thanks Bill - appreciate your help ! Bill D Hare 04/16/2001 05:51 PM We informed Tana that we made the change in Global Counterparty to include , " a division of Cargill Incorporated " . We will meet in the near future to discuss the issues surrounding division and trade name setups in Global Counterparty . Bill Bill - If Sam 's description below of the GCP procedure is correct , it looks to me like something needs to be changed . The difficulty lies in the fact that the confirmation system reads the counterparty 's name from Global Counterparty . Since divisions of companies are not legal entities they do not have the power to contract in their own names . If the correct legal name is not in Global Counterparty , the confirmation goes out with the wrong legal name on it seriously compromising the contract itself . That is the source of Tana 's concern regarding the correct entering of divisions in the system . My suggestion is that Global Counterparty use the same name that the customer has signed on the EnronOnline Password Application -- my understanding is that the EnronOnline team returns inappropriate Applications to the customer until they are correctly completed . In this particular case since the counterparty is still not allowed to transact on EnronOnline almost a month after sending in their application they are understandably upset and are now complaining . I would appreciate it if you could get this one fixed today and , if you have any problem with changing the GCP procedure , please let me know . Mark Tana Jones 04/16/2001 03:11 PM Samuel Schott 03/28/2001 01:09 PM FYI ... Cargill Ferrous International is set up correctly in the Global Counterparty System as a Division of Cargill , Inc . Cargill Ferrous International is the full name of this division and set up as such in GCP with a Sub - to - Legal Link to Cargill , Inc. per GCP procedure . Also , the Global SAP team ( Cheryl Johnson ) would need Legal Name Change documentation from the Counterparty in order to change this name . Best Rgds . Samuel x3-9890 ( GCP ) Enron Net Works _ Global Data Management Any updates on adding the correct legal name to this counterparty name ? Hello , Yes , GCP provides the links to establish the correlation between the parent and child for our downstream systems . GCP procedure is to create Counterparty names that reflect either the Tradename / Division name or Parent Name -- not reflect both simultaneously . ( Although , we have broken that rule for Legal in the past . ) This defeats the purpose of using a Tradename . Best Rgds . Samuel Tana , Please review the process below : With divisions , EOL does request a new Password Application for the applicant reflecting the name as you noted below . When the company is set up in the EOL database we link the company to the Parent and reference the CP ID . Sam , please confirm , Global Counterparty also provides the links to establish correlation between the parent and child for our downstream systems . Let me know if this is the appropriate steps that you would like to see . Thanks , Stephanie Sam & Stephanie , Re : Cargill Ferrous International It was my understanding with the EOL Team that all divisions would have the legal incorporated entity as part of the name . Stephanie , I my preference is to kick their Password Application back and get them to change it to read something like " Cargill Ferrous International , a division of Cargill , Inc. " or " Cargill , Inc. acting through its Cargill Ferrous International Division " . Samuel Schott 03/21/2001 01:58 PM Any GCP adjustments will be highlighted in red . Attn. GCP_London : There 's a new EOL Counterparty listed in the UK . Please respond . Best Rgds . Samuel x3-9890 ENW_GCP Please see attached . Doc - I 'll be in town through Sunday morning . Any chance we can get together for dinner Saturday eve. ? Mark I 'm handling the afternoon -- I think that Harry has this morning . MHC Can you cover for me today ? I am in mediation . I left a voicemail for Sharon Butcher , as well , just to make sure it is handled . My schedule shows an afternoon session . Do we have 2 sessions today ? If so , you may want to split and cover . Thanks a ton . I will take you next one in August . Thanks , Kriste Kriste K. Sullivan Enron Corp. - Legal EB 4861 ( 713 ) 853-7557 Phone ( 713 ) 646-5847 Fax I got this . I assume this is 12:30 Central Time ? When : Wednesday , September 19 , 2001 10:30 AM - 11:30 AM ( GMT - 08:00 ) Pacific Time ( US & Canada ) ; Tijuana . Where : Conf. Call *~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~* 10:30 - 11:30 PST Call - in # : 800/711-8000 Passcode : 4153030 Here is the overview of Bob Henderson 's Employment Agreement . What do you think ? MHC Michelle , please comment . Please send me an email response about whether you and Michelle Cash are OK with what he 's written . After that , what do we do ? Brad After a conversation with Ryan Seleznov I herewith like disclose in writing my intentions in respect to Dealbench . Please see attached Word file Best regards Tobias Munk Please see the attached . Teresa Please send David Lund copies of our standard corporate services agreement and the standard assignment letter ( use Bridgeline example -- with and without non-compete ) . Michelle We 're formatting one this week , and we 'll send it when it 's done . Michelle Thanks very much . Do you also have a SSD we can use ? Jane << File : 220b - dg - Agreement for Recruiting Services.doc >> << File : 220a DG - Agreement for Contract Services.DOC >> Here are the sample Agreements . Please let us know if you need anything else . Thanks . Diane Goode Senior Specialist I agree also , but I do n't know all the parties or complications involved . Should there be a ( groan ) meeting on this ? Can you please help with this one ? I agree with what the concern is below . We have GIS ids , and Eid ( external id - just like GIS id ) . I think we should try to migrate to one of these . Please let me know what type of statement I should make back to the customer . Thanks . Kathy , Per my voicemail message , please review the note below . I 'd like to work with you on a response to this customer . Thanks , Brandee Brandee Sanborn I.S.C. Customer Care Design & Process Support http://isc.enron.com/site << OLE Object : Picture ( Device Independent Bitmap ) >> Ngoc Luan Do@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 08/07/2001 12:36 PM To Whom It May Concern : Through TV and newspapers , I hear constantly about identity fraud using stolen social security information . I am very concerned about this issue . I have the following suggestion for our company . Since Enron 's employees are assigned an SAP identification numbers ( P number ) and an HR number , could Enron as a company use these IDs instead of the SS numbers ? This will be safer for all employees . For example , I am concerned when I buy the monthly bus passes and I have to fill in my SS number . I do not feel secure at all to see my SS in so many databases at Enron , especially when some databases are from third - parties ( out - sourcing ) . We could use our badge number there instead of our SS . Please let me know how your organization can help the Enron employees feel safer about the safeguard of their SS number . Please calendar and print for my files on this meeting . Thanks . MHC All , A reminder that the HR Associate Points Meeting will take place as below : Thursday , 23rd August 3.30 pm - 5.30 pm ( EB 46C1 ) . The Leads who are responsible for Associates are as follows : Sunjay Arya Gary Buck Khymberly Booth Ryan Seleznov Mecole Brown Tim O'Rourke Tana Cashion Sheila Walton Wendy Fincher Sheila Knudsen Karen Phillips Neil Davies Noel Ryan Cindy Skinner Simone Scott Walker Shanna Funkhouser Peer reviews are currently been gathered on the above . Upon receipt , I shall forward to each of you a copy of the reviews for your respective associate . In addition they will be contacting you to discuss their participation in projects outside their rotation . Those who are not assigned an associate may also allocate points ( a max of 150 ) at the meeting based on contribution to your areas for the first review period . If anyone has any questions on the above please let me know . Kind regards , Karen . x54667 Shanna , I spoke with Per tonight about this . Let 's talk tomorrow . Thanks . Michelle This is the background to my conversation with Shanna . I have a copy of the document I can give to you tomorrow . Thanks for following up on this . Per Per - I did not hear back from Shanna or Sharon Butcher . Could you please ask Shanna to take this situation to Sharon tomorrow ? John , Per and I discussed the hostile environment issue and we are both concerned that we may have some repercussions . I am vacation until the 22nd but Per is up to speed and I would like to make sure that you keep up with him and any HR / Legal activity that may occur . Thank you Paula Let 's discuss exactly what is involved here -- confidentiality , etc . Thanks . MHC Hi Ya'll , I wanted to let you know about this before I respond to her request . Let me know if you have any questions . Regards , Sandra Kathy McMahon suggested that I contact you in an effort to gather information on : Enron 's Affirmative Action Policy and plans ; as well as demographic analysis of workforce ( gender , age , ethnic origin , nationality ) Jeff Skilling has agreed to work with Harvard Business School ( HBS ) on a 5 - year case study called ' Modern Giants ' . HBS will shadow Enron and a number of other companies over the next five years to assess how we react to market changes and to see how we morph during this time period . Please let me know at your earliest convience if you can help me . Regards , Cindy please print all these for me . Thanks . MHC Ryan , Try this . bob k FYI re : NEPCO picketing issues . Michelle Michelle , Two in one day . We understand that the pipe fitters are also planning to picket the Lake Worth , Florida project as well . Our execution team needs to get some guidance and planning for this picketing should it interfere with the progress of the work . In that respect , we need to dial in Rick Johnson and Olgletree to plan and communicate that plan to the execution team . I think the first step is a call between yourself , me , Mark Stubley and Mike Indivero . And then another call with all folks or a meeting at the jobsite to lay out the plan . Barbara , please organize a call for Mike , Michelle , Mark Stubley and me . Thanks . David , I have been advised by our Construction Manager , Mr. Joe Osler that while he was visiting the City of Lake Worth Building Planning and Zoning dept regarding our permit status he learned that the pipefitters have inquired about permit requirements to picket our site . Apparently the City informed them that no permit is required . I have heard that the pipefitters have established a picket line at the Payne Creek site today . We will need local legal counsel to assist us in this regard . Mike Indivero , I understand that Mr. Mike Croall 's release date from NEPCO is Oct 31 , 2001 . Please advise as to who his replacement is and their report date . Thanks , Galen J. Torneby Project Manager National Energy Production Corporation ( NEPCO ) 11831 North Creek Parkway North Bothell , WA 98011 USA Tel : 425-415-3052 Cell : 425-922-0475 Fax : 425-415-3098 email : < mailto:galent@nepco.com > mailto:galen.torneby@nepco.com Rick Hopkinson@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 09/16/99 10:07 AM Sara , trading is still not settled . Thank you for the invitaion to the conference call . I would like both Lynn and I to participate . I assume we should come over EB . Can you tell us where . Thanks Rick , Do you want us to come over to the Enron b in your call . Could Sara Shackleton@ECT 09/16/99 08:55 AM Have you decided who will be assisting tax - wise for these two countries ? I have a conference call this afternoon at 3 pm ( Houston time ) with Antonio Felix de Araujo Cintra from the Tozzini firm regarding further research on derivative products for trading in Brazil . Attached is a summary of products and the various Enron groups seeking answers . If you would like to participate in person or by conference , please let me know . I will be in Sao Paulo from Sept 20 - 22 and Buenos Aires from Sept 23 - 24 . In Brazil , I will be meeting again with Tozzini lawyers . In BA , I 'll be meeting with Marval lawyers . Let me know if you would like to participate in any way . Sara please try to verify . Thanks . Sara Sara Shackleton 09/16/99 10:16 AM How about Friday , Sept. 17 , at 9 am ( Houston time ) which is 11 am ( Sao Paulo ) time ? Please advise . Sara ___________________________________________ Warning NOTICE : This message is confidential . If you have received it by mistake please let us know by reply and then delete it from your system ; you should not copy this message or disclose its contents to anyone . Thank you . - Em-enro2.doc The call was cancelled . I am waiting to hear about a possible call Friday morning . Sara Andrea Bertone@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 09/15/99 04:41 PM Yes . If something happens that I 'm not able to participate I 'll let you know . Thanks . Sara Shackleton@ECT 09/15/99 08:15 PM This call has been changed to 3 pm ( Houston time ) which is 5 pm ( Sao Paulo time ) . Please let me know if you would like for me to conference you in . Sara The draft you received has been approved by Dan . If you would like this executed , please let me know . Sara Daniel R Castagnola@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 05/17/99 01:47 PM Sara : Looks good . Dan Sara Shackleton@ECT 05/17/99 11:23 AM Dan : please see if the attached draft works . My extension is 35620 . Sara As a result of our luncheon with the confirm desk yesterday , could someone develop a comprehensive list identifying all omnibus attachments ? If you think any other pertinent information could be included , please feel free to add it . Thanks . Sara I e-mailed your assistant earlier this morning and have had no response . Can we reschedule the phone call for 9 am ( Houston ) which is 11 am ( Sao Paulo ) on Friday , Sept. 17 ? Please advise . Sara The conference call has been rescheduled for Friday , Sept. 17 at 9 am ( Houston ) which is 11 am ( Sao Paulo ) . I will initiate the call . If anyone would like to be conferenced in or attend in person , please let me know . Thanks . Sara I am forwarding to you guidelines prepared for global products trading . It 's a good starting point . I am currently working on guidelines for Argentina which will address both physical and financial trading . Other " guidelines " exist in limited form for the remote offices in Singapore and Australia . I am checking on London . I 'm not exactly certain as to what you are looking for . Obviously the foreign offices have issues that may not apply in the US ( although LA. is about as close as you can get to a third world country ) . One thing that does n't show up in the attachment is the swap eligibility issue . Let me know how I can help further . Sara Janice Moore 09/03/99 01:57 PM Here it is -- we printed this 2 - sided and laminated it . Becky will bring you the hard copy version . Lunch date later . see below . It looks like the 2 - day L/C issue is an issue . I 'll call you shortly . Joseph Manogue at Tiger called me last night to say he had finally reviewed the draft ISDA doc with all agreed changes put in and lined from original . He faxed it to you and will have the original Fedexed overnight . Hope you 'll have time to review it today . S&S has again asked about the gtee and l/c wording . They do not have anything from us in writing confirming the agreed changes . Joe asked that you fax the revised gtee wording that has been agreed ( I believe it was our agreeing to reduce the claim period from 15 days down to 5 ) and the new l/c wording ( drops the 2 day period to replace an l/c with a different bank if the first refuses to pay ) . I know we talked about these issues earlier , but Tiger 's lawyers want to get everything agreed in writing now so final docs can be issued for signing , even if we are the one's issuing the gtee and l/c . Thanks ! Call if you have questions or if I can be of any help . There is an outside chance we could have everything set to go this week . With best regards , Per Hi back ! and Happy New Year too ! To what do I owe this small pleasure ? I 'm fine in Texas , still hanging out with Phoebe and Chloe , working hard , etc . Where are you living these days ? N.O. ? Atlanta ? Memphis ? Eleuthra ? St. Petersburg ? Amelia Island Plantation ? I 've simply lost track ! As for me , well , I lead the simple life , own a little house in West University , own a little car ( I had to buy a new one recently - the 14 - year old 380 SE started scaring me a bit ) , you know , the usual . Are you selling burgers up and down the east coast ? Have you gone international ? In a new franchise business ? How 's your family ? Got to get back to work ! This weekend I 'm off to Sao Paulo and Buenos Aires on business . SARA SamChawk@aol.com on 09/11/99 07:48:44 PM Sara - Happy New Year , stranger ! Hope all is well . Do you miss me ? SAM Mark Elliott tells me that you drafted some trader guidelines ( physical and financial ) for the London traders . I am trying to develop similar guidelines for the Southern Cone regions ( first Argentina ) and thought your expertise would be very helpful . Could you send me a set ? I 'm leaving for Sao Paulo on Saturday but I will be in the office tomorrow . Thank you for your help . Regards . Sara ( if ..... ) ( iii ) definitive agreements acceptable to Party A in its sole discretion regarding the debt and all other aspects of [ the project to be owned by Party B ] , including but not limited to the senior debt facility , commitments and all project documents , have been fully negotiated and executed and the [ project ] has been brought to financial close . fyi Robert Quick 09/17/99 04:50 AM Sara , here are the trader guidelines I developed for UK gas , UK power and Nordic power . I assume you need both gas and power . These are to some extent country or market specific . As these guidelines need to be approved by Houston , I am copying this to Mark , Alan and Jeff . tks Sara Shackleton 09/16/99 09:48 PM Mark Elliott tells me that you drafted some trader guidelines ( physical and financial ) for the London traders . I am trying to develop similar guidelines for the Southern Cone regions ( first Argentina ) and thought your expertise would be very helpful . Could you send me a set ? I 'm leaving for Sao Paulo on Saturday but I will be in the office tomorrow . Thank you for your help . Regards . Sara Please review the attached memo to verify that I have identified all of the products that you are interested in trading in Brazil . I will be in Sao Paulo on Monday , September 20 , 1999 . Thank you , Sara JMB < JBennett@GMSSR.com > 12/22/2000 06:28 PM Parties , attached is the promised ruling that provides procedural guidance for the hearings on 12/27 and 12/28 . The ruling will also be posted on the web site as quickly as possible . Thank you for your patience and I hope you can take a few moments to enjoy the holidays . -- Angela Minkin Administrative Law Judge << 1%P701!.doc >> Note that this communication is confidential , covered by CA 's settlement rules . " Lindh , Frank ( Law ) " < FRL3@pge.com > 12/21/2000 07:50 PM Confidential Settlement Document Per CPUC Rule 51 Gas Accord II Settlement Participants : Attached is PG&E 's Gas Accord II ( GA II ) Settlement Proposal . We believe it addresses many of the issues and concerns you have raised in the workshops . As an overview , this proposal : * Maintains the basic Gas Accord structure in place today for the period 2003 to 2007 . * * Offers end user transportation rates for 2003 lower for most customers than rates in effect today . * * Provides for vintaged Redwood path rates for core customers . * * Offers a 7.5 cent / dth rate to large customers while minimizing rate changes to other customers , minimizing the incentive for these customers to seek to bypass local transmission charges and other CPUC - approved charges . * * Adopts guidelines to improve reliability and help moderate prices in gas commodity markets , and identifies the capital projects needed to meet these guidelines over the course of the GA II period ( 2003 - 2007 ) . * * Provides a high degree of rate stability , with a 3.5 % escalator to capture both inflation and the cost of needed capital projects . The guaranteed rates will be adjustable only for significant changes in the cost of capital or increased costs due to governmental requirements or catastrophic events . * * Preserves a rate differential between the Redwood and Baja paths , although somewhat less than the current differential . * * Proposes a two - stage open season for firm transportation services beginning in 2003 , with end users receiving a first option on available capacity . * * Maintains the core aggregation program with some adjustments . PG&E also anticipates that the Core Procurement Incentive Mechanism ( CPIM ) will be similar to today 's mechanism , but will reflect the somewhat larger capacity holdings needed to meet anticipated increases in core demand and to meet a 1 - day in 10 - year cold weather event . This also will serve as a reminder that an all - Party meeting is scheduled at PG&E 's headquarters in San Francisco on January 10 and 11 , to discuss this proposal and to respond to your questions . We look forward to answering your questions and receiving your feedback . The attached documents include the GA II Settlement proposal , an Attachment ( a copy of PG&E 's proposed Gas Rule 27 ) , and a set of supporting workpapers . Finally , please note that the Settlement document and the Attachment are in " Word 2000 " format . We would be glad to provide the same documents in an earlier version of Word , upon request by individual Parties . We look forward to seeing you on January 10 - 11 . In the meantime , we extend our best wishes for a safe and happy holiday season . Frank Lindh Ray Williams ( 415 ) 973-2776 ( 415 ) 973-3634 << PG&E Gas Accord II Settlement Proposal 12-20-00.doc >> << Proposed Gas Rule 27.doc >> << COS & Rates Workpapers for GA II 12-20-2000 Proposal.xls >> Greetings Judge Minkin : This is to inform that a representative of Enron Corp would like to address the Commission on the issue of utility rate stabilization plans at the Commission 's hearings scheduled for December 27th and 28th . Thank you . Sincerely , Jeffrey Dasovich Director , Enron Corp Attached is a draft of the talking points for the Commission 's hearings . Few points : Our time is likely to be limited to 5 - 10 minutes . Mike Day , our outside counsel , will make the presentation on our behalf . Mike Day is fleshing out the legal details of our presentation and he will forward that along for folks review later today . Comments can be forwarded to me via email , pager ( 888.916.7184 ) , voicemail ( 415.782.7822 ) , or home ( 415.621.8317 ) . We will finalize the message points on tomorrow 's daily call ( 10 AM CST ) . The call in number is 800.713.8600 . Code is 80435 . The Commission 's hearings begin tomorrow at 10 AM ( PST ) . Jeff Dasovich Sent by : Jeff Dasovich 12/26/2000 03:15 PM Attached is a draft of the talking points for the Commission 's hearings . Few points : Our time is likely to be limited to 5 - 10 minutes . Mike Day , our outside counsel , will make the presentation on our behalf . Mike Day is fleshing out the legal details of our presentation and he will forward that along for folks review later today . Comments can be forwarded to me via email , pager ( 888.916.7184 ) , voicemail ( 415.782.7822 ) , or home ( 415.621.8317 ) . We will finalize the message points on tomorrow 's daily call ( 10 AM CST ) . The call in number is 800.713.8600 . Code is 80435 . The Commission 's hearings begin tomorrow at 10 AM ( PST ) . Nice job . Going to be a wild ride . That 's a very good point . I 'll make the change . Best , Jeff Harry Kingerski 12/26/2000 03:33 PM Jeff - instead of suggesting a specific rate increase - 10 or 15 % , I think we should acknowledge that a " modest " increase may be necessary and may in fact be desirable - but that the specific amount of increase should be reasoned and subject to well thought out evidence and hearings , not just determined by whim . In general , we should not be overly prescriptive at this point and I know you agree with that . Otherwise , I think you have captured the points excellently . We 're in the process of developing a strategy to take us through the next few months . But while the ( otherwise perishable ) thoughts are still fresh in my mind from the hearings on Monday and Tuesday , I wanted to throw out some observations for discussion in the days / weeks ahead . OBSERVATION -- The pressure to finger somebody for " price gouging " is increasing . The administration is hell bent on finding a " fall guy . " The price spikes pose real political risks for Davis and he and his folks need and want an easy way out . His press release following the hearing renewed the call for " refunds . " On my panel , Loretta Lynch asked Reliant and Duke to supply her with the details of the contracts they cut to sell their power forward to marketers . And Carl Wood 's remarks were extreme . At the Barton hearing , a liberal democrat ( Filner ) and a conservative Republican ( Hunter ) locked arms in calling for refunds . Bilbray joined the " gouging " band wagon . The utilities repeatedly called on FERC to do a " real " investigation , with hearings , testimony , data discovery --- the works . On the positive side , the FERC commissioners lauded Wolak , his analysis , and his remarks on the panel . Wolak said somewhat emphatically that the nature of California 's market structure makes it impossible to single out a single participant as the culprit . He also stated that just everyone 's just acting in their own self - interest , responding to the screwed incentives embedded in the structure . IMPLICATION -- It seems prudent for Enron to understand better its risks of getting fingered . In the best case , the clamoring for a " refund " subsides . In which case , the only cost to Enron is the internal cost incurred to understand better the risks of getting fingered . In the medium case , investigations find that Enron ( like others ) " played by the rules , " but the rules stunk , and Enron profited at the expense of California consumers . You 're right , Sue . Rates ca n't go up w/out declaring the rate freeze over in some fashion --- trying to finesse it . Thanks very much for the comments . Harry also had a good comment --- do n't specify the amount of rate increase in our comments ; rather note that the rate increase needs to be well - reasoned and based on facts and evidence . Will make that change . Shawna Johnson@ENRON 02/22/2001 04:37 PM This is a request for your interview participation . The Associate and Analyst Programs will be on the Penn , undergraduate campus interviewing summer Analyst interns next week . Due to business reasons , previously scheduled interviewers from the Penn team have had to cancel their participation . Currently , I need three interviewers for Thursday , March 1st and one interviewer for Friday , March 2nd . Please let me know of your availability . Campus interviews are scheduled as follows : Place : University of Pennsylvania Date : Thursday , March 1st Friday , March 2nd Day One Interviews Day Two Interviews Where : On Campus Inn at Pen Time : 8:00 - 5:00 8:00 - 5:00 Interviewers : Kevin McGowan - confirmed Jen Fraser - confirmed Margaret Rhee - confirmed Chris Hilgert - confirmed In the event that you have scheduling conflicts and can not participate , any referrals at the Director or VP level would be greatly appreciated . As always , thank you for your time and please contact me @ ext 58369 if you have any questions . Shawna Johnson Recruiting Coordinator Sorry about that before . I 'll not say anything . Best Jeff " Scott A. Kushnick " < skush@swbell.net > 01/26/2001 12:48 PM Please do n't mention my NY trip to anyone . Keep in touch . Scott thanks for the update . have you gotten a price ? Doug Leach 01/25/2001 09:40 AM fyi Tom Byargeon , Kevin Miller and Ken Loch in ENA are working with producers in the US involved in deep water offshore Louisiana / Texas oil and gas drilling projects . This financing activity was primarily started to help ENA secure long term well head and pipeline natural gas supplies to supplement the gas trading desk activities . Just like what happened in Enron 's initial VPP program they are find more interest in oil drilling projects rather than natural gas projects . They are currently working on a bid ( due 1/31 ) for the Medusa project which involves Murphy ( operator ) , Agip and Callon in Mississippi Canyon Blocks # 538 and # 582 . The initial reservoir reports estimate reserves of 80 - 120 million barrels of sour crude and they estimate initial production to be 40,000 bpd starting in 1Q 2003 . Quality is estimated to be a Mars type crude with 25 - 27 API Gravity and 1.5 - 2.0 % sulfur . Plans are to build a private pipeline to Equilon 's West Delta # 143 platform and then bring the oil onshore . Peggy is finding out where WD # 143 pumps to onshore . Tom 's group would like to know if we have any interesting in buying the crude on either a fixed or floating basis . The floating could be tied to a Platt 's index or the NYMEX . It is far too early to expect Murphy to enter into a physical or financial contract , but Tom hopes to get us first and / or last look from Murphy when the time is right . Another alternative is to give Murphy barrels at their 95,000 bpd Meraux , Louisiana refinery in exchange for the new production barrels . Could someone in your group please give me a notional non binding basis differential for this quality of crude for Cal 2003 ? please print Amanda Huble@ENRON 01/24/2001 01:02 PM Please address , and I 'll check with Legal as well . We typically only book deals when everything is signed off . Jeff David Hoog 01/26/2001 09:37 AM following up on our discussion yesterday ; for these types of deals , i do nt think it s necessary to have all the documentation of our counterparty 's authorization to enter into the agreement . these are short term transactions and requiring this documentation will cause us to lose business because competitive alternatives do not have such burdensome requirements . the primary reason we need these things is for the scenario where a muni does a derivative deal with an open - ended downside , loses $ 50 million , and then claims that it was not a valid contract . in our case , they are only hedging . we are collecting a premium up front and their total cost is known up front . therefore they will not attempt to make this claim . even if they did , our risk is limited to the premium , not some big payout . the risk of losing business is far greater than the risk of a counterparty trying to get their premium back . seems like a 5 second decision to me . is it possible to combine the standard isda and our confirm into a single long form ? by going away from the standard isda maybe we can eliminate these requirements because the payout liability is only 1 - way . please print RusAmArts@aol.com 01/26/2001 11:57 AM Dear Mr. Shankman , Thank you very much for your quick reply . Attached is my resume . I highlight the relevant skills in the summary . The position is with the EES MMC EAST department / WHOLESALE , RETAIL & COMM , ENRON ENERGY SERVICES . It was posted on Dec. 11 , but the Human Resource dept said that if it is still on the internet , it is open . Look forward to hearing your comments / suggestions . Regards , Rina - ENRONR~1.DOC Yikes ! That girl 's mother sounds like a real problem . I 'm not sure how I would have handled it . How 's school going ? Any plans for the weekend ? Alma Martinez@ENRON 01/26/2001 11:36 AM What happened ? Here 's a story ... as I was waiting at the bus stop ( 7:35 am ) to go to school , a lady approached me and asked if I 'd make sure her daughter got on a certain bus . The mother was running late for work and could not wait . I could n't say no ... so Nicki ( the little girl - 10 yrs. old ) and I waited for the bus . It was now , 8:15 and there was no sign of her bus . On top of things , I had quiz at 8 am . Which I then realized I missed . I decided that Nicki would just have to wait on her own . I asked her if she had any relatives that would want to know of her whereabouts . I called her grandmother and explained things to her . Pretty strange ... aye . A bus that runs through UofH arrived and I almost got on without her , but I could n't do it . Finally , I told the little girl that she would have to accompany me to school ( 8:30 am ) . There were only 15 minutes left of class . I stayed for the remainder of the lecture . After class we went back to bus stop and within minutes her bus arrived . I told the bus driver where to drop her off . I notified her grandmother with the time of the departure . And I was relieved when Nicki called to let me know she was home safe . Please send the memo to the EGM business heads as well . Thanks . Jeff Jana Giovannini 01/26/2001 10:51 AM Actually , Jen has volunteered for the afternoon session . I spoke to her prior to my note . Is there anyone else in EGM that could participate ? Please let me know . Thanks . Jen , please take care of this for EGM Jana Giovannini 01/24/2001 11:42 AM All , The Analyst and Associate Programs recognize we have many Analyst needs that need to be addressed immediately . While we anticipate many new Analysts joining Enron this summer ( late May ) and fulltime ( August ) we felt it necessary to address some of the immediate needs with an Off - Cycle Recruiting event . We are planning this event for Thursday , February 15 and are inviting approximately 30 candidates to be interviewed . I am asking that you forward this note to any potential interviewers ( Managers or above ) . We will conduct first round interviews in the morning and the second round interviews in the afternoon . We need for interviewers to commit either to the morning ( 9 am - 12 pm ) or afternoon ( 2 pm - 5 pm ) complete session . Please submit your response using the buttons below and update your calendar for this date . In addition , we will need the groups that have current needs to commit to taking one or more of these Analysts should they be extended an offer . Thanks in advance for your cooperation . Thank you , Jana Where does our 50 % ( the 1.65 million dollars ) show up ? Can you provide me with more details ? Great job , guys . Eric Gonzales 01/25/2001 02:02 AM Great job gentlemen ! This deviation shows that Eco definitely has a significant amount of option value which can be exploited with quick reactions and favourable market movements . Eric Wayne Perry@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 25/01/2001 00:20 Finally completed tonight Net to Enron LNG Marketing Company - $ 272,000 ( $ 0.10 / mmbtu ) Net to Eco about $ 3,300,000 ( Enron 50 % share about $ 1,650,000 ) Enron total gain not counting ENA 's trading desk margin is $ 1,922,000 Not bad for a single cargo . Wayne Jen , please take care of this for EGM Marianne : The following are my comments : 1 . In Section 1.1 , there should be a parentheses after etc. in the 5th line . 2 . In Section 3.1 , in the last sentence after the proviso insert " a " before the word " change " and after the word " in " . 3 . In Section 6.1 , change 20 Business Days to 20 days . Also , add a semicolon at the end of clause ( i ) . 4 . In Section 6.2.1 I 'll just note that the discount rate sentence I think is still an open issue . 5 . In Section 6.3 , clause ( c ) should be reworded to fit with the language in the beginning of the Section . 6 . Capitalize the word " facility " in the definition of Average Annual Load Factor . 7 . Delete the definition of Costs as it is already defined in Section 6.2.1 . 8 . Where is the defined term Govt Authority used ? 9 . In the GTC , the ECP rep should also apply to EESI . Also , in the 7th line of the reps add the word " into " after the word " entered " and before the word " this " . 10 . In Collateral Requests , insert a comma after deposit in the last line . I will also add granting / perfection language . 11 . In Events of Default , clause ( a ) refers to a dispute section which I 'm not sure exists . In clause ( e ) , delete the " s " : from the word consolidation . 12 . Remedies should be deleted as it is already covered in Section 6.1 . 13 . In UCC / Disclaimer of warranties , add a clause ( c ) . I would add setoff language . Carol St. Clair EB 3889 713-853-3989 ( Phone ) 713-646-3393 ( Fax ) carol.st.clair@enron.com Marianne Castano@EES 05/30/2001 11:05 AM Carol : I have attempted to incorporate the changes that Jim has incorporated in our long form power agreement which ENA has suggested to date into the short form . Attached please find a sample short form ( for the Con Ed market ) for your review . Please note the following as you review : 1 . The short forms do not contain the optionality relating to our performing billing services -- all of our midmarket forms anticipate that we will act as customer 's billing agent and that we will collect all amounts due related to T&D and the like from the customer ( and reflect same on our invoice ) and pass those amounts on to the customer 's utility . 2 . I did not include a " Setoff " provision in this draft , mainly because the vast majority of the time , we will not , nor will an affiliate , have another agreement in place with these customers . If you feel strongly about our including a setoff provision , we will do so . 3 . The change in law provision reads a bit differently from the long form -- the thinking here is that the long form language is very lengthy and rather harsh ( and we 've had great difficulty selling it in the past ) . Taking into consideration this class of customer , we decided to include certain items , including our inability to cover our costs due to a change in law , rules or practices as a " force majeure event " in an effort to soften the approach ( see the GTCs ) . Also we do not address calculation of a termination payment in the event of a change in law as the long form does -- again , more in the interest of " saving space " than anything else ... Let us know your thoughts on this document and if you are comfortable with our using this until such time as the hybrid form is launched . If you are comfortable , we will drive these changes into our other midmarket power forms . Thanks again for your help with this project , Marianne P.S. Please be sure to copy Sarah Dietrich and Jennifer Hillegonds on your response -- they will be taking this project during my " hiatus " -- I am moving to PA on Friday of this week , and will be out of pocket through approximately 7/16 . I will start up again in mid-July ... John : I have faxed to you the form of Bond , our proposed Bond provisions and the EEI Master . I am waiting on the confirms and will send them to you shortly by fax or e-mail . Carol St. Clair EB 3889 713-853-3989 ( Phone ) 713-646-3393 ( Fax ) carol.st.clair@enron.com Carol St. Clair EB 3889 713-853-3989 ( Phone ) 713-646-3393 ( Fax ) carol.st.clair@enron.com Carol St Clair 05/31/2001 09:01 AM Phyllis : Our letter of credit person would be more comfortable if we deleted all of the language that makes the LC transferable . Are you okay with that ? If so , are we ready to execute ? Carol St. Clair EB 3889 713-853-3989 ( Phone ) 713-646-3393 ( Fax ) carol.st.clair@enron.com lemelpe@NU.COM 05/30/2001 03:00 PM Carol : I understand that we are still reviewing the attachment that lists the open transactions . How are you making out on the revised version of the LOC ? Marianne : In addition to my other comments on the Mid Market Power Form , I think you should add a forward contract rep . Carol St. Clair EB 3889 713-853-3989 ( Phone ) 713-646-3393 ( Fax ) carol.st.clair@enron.com Christie or Cass : Are we playing tomorrow at 9:30 ? Carol St. Clair EB 3889 713-853-3989 ( Phone ) 713-646-3393 ( Fax ) carol.st.clair@enron.com Rhonda : As I mentioned in my e-mail , John Lepore at Select Energy ( Settlements Group ) is trying to reconcile our list with his list . He needs more info about these trades ( i.e. , price info ) and would like to talk with you about it . His number is 860-665-2368 and e-mail address is leporjj@selectenergy.com . Once we agree on the list , we can sign the EEI Master . Carol St. Clair EB 3889 713-853-3989 ( Phone ) 713-646-3393 ( Fax ) carol.st.clair@enron.com Rhonda L Denton 05/25/2001 12:45 PM Here 's everything that flows from 5/1/01 forward . Carol St Clair 05/25/2001 12:01 PM We need to include all outstanding transactions . Thanks . Carol St. Clair EB 3889 713-853-3989 ( Phone ) 713-646-3393 ( Fax ) carol.st.clair@enron.com Rhonda L Denton 05/25/2001 11:45 AM Do you want 6/1/01 and forward or do you want to include all of May since they have not been settled ? Just let me know and I can send you a new attachment . Carol St Clair 05/25/2001 10:56 AM Rhonda : Does Attachment A to the Select EEI Master need to be updated or is the version that you sent to me the current version ? Carol St. Clair EB 3889 713-853-3989 ( Phone ) 713-646-3393 ( Fax ) carol.st.clair@enron.com lemelpe@NU.COM 05/25/2001 10:44 AM Carol - I think Valerie Mooney ( our credit person ) and Ed Sacks are still discussing some minor fine tuning of the LOC format . I spoke to Bob Bruce this morning - we 're all set on the language in the Schedule to the ISDA , and there is a minor credit / billing issue in Paragraph 13 related to the timing of transfer of interest on collateral that Val will discuss with Ed as well . As far as the EEI goes , the only remaining issue that I 'm aware of ( aside from finalizing the LOC ) is whether we 've finished coordinating the Attachment containing the list of prior transactions . Sounds like we may actually get these documents executed early next week . Phyllis Lemell Carol St. Clair EB 3889 713-853-3989 ( Phone ) 713-646-3393 ( Fax ) carol.st.clair@enron.com Rhonda L Denton 06/01/2001 03:20 PM I am missing Deal No. 74419 on your sheet . It is Enpower No. 295870 . Will fax . Rhonda : Thanks so much for your help on this . Carol St. Clair EB 3889 713-853-3989 ( Phone ) 713-646-3393 ( Fax ) carol.st.clair@enron.com Rhonda L Denton 06/01/2001 03:20 PM I am missing Deal No. 74419 on your sheet . It is Enpower No. 295870 . Will fax . Carol St. Clair EB 3889 713-853-3989 ( Phone ) 713-646-3393 ( Fax ) carol.st.clair@enron.com Rhonda L Denton 06/01/2001 03:20 PM I am missing Deal No. 74419 on your sheet . It is Enpower No. 295870 . Will fax . Phyllis : We can accept the language with your chnages . Are we ready to execute ? I am out of the office today but will be back tomorrow . Please call me . thanks . Carol St. Clair EB 3889 713-853-3989 ( Phone ) 713-646-3393 ( Fax ) carol.st.clair@enron.com lemelpe@NU.COM 06/04/01 08:38 AM Carol - Our credit person does n't understand why the transferability language needs to be eliminated . It simply refers to the same ICC publication for the transfer process that governs the letter of credit generally . Is there some specific concern that we can address ? Russell : Your comments to the transfer agreement were fine . With respect to the Guaranty , I will delete the Schedule . Our system did not show any other chnages . Were there any ? Carol Yes . Carol St. Clair EB 3889 713-853-3989 ( Phone ) 713-646-3393 ( Fax ) carol.st.clair@enron.com All , Please see the attached Interconnect Agreement with Questar . I wanted you all to have a look at what we believe is the final draft . It is a fairly standard , fully reimbursable interconnect with Questar . Transwestern will own and operate the interconnect . You will notice that Questar has requested a " Payment Plan " that details when they will pay Transwestern for the interconnect due to the recent Enron events . If anyone has any questions or concerns about the timing of these payments , please give me a call . Also , you will notice this interconnect may not be subject to the CIAC tax gross up , but to protect ourselves , we have added language in Para 3.2 that protects us financially if the IRS ever comes back to determine that this interconnect is subject to the CIAC tax . Robert Guthrie with the tax department has worked with us to develop this language . We hope to execute this Agreement this week . If you have any comments , please let me know . After execution , we will forward a final copy to you for your files . Thanks , Kim 713-853-3098 << File : Questar So Trails Hub Interconnect 02-05-02.doc >> Earl , We are looking at putting the metering facilities on their ROW ( also , I think we will have to purchase about 50 ft of ROW from ElPaso to get to Questar 's property ) . As you look at this , if for some reason we can not obtain ElPaso ROW , we will have to look at Plan B which would be to put the metering on our ROW . Our in - service date is May 1 . If you think that May 1 may be difficult due to receiving the parts / materials on a timely basis because of the issues that vendors may have with us because of recent Enron events , please let me know . Questar has already informed us that they would help obtain parts / materials to our specifications if it helps achieve an in - service date of May 1 . Thanks , Kim . Kim Has a location , Theirs or TW land / ROW , been settled and when is the required in - service date ? Thanks Earl Chanley 505-625-8031 All , Please see the attached Interconnect Agreement with Questar . I wanted you all to have a look at what we believe is the final draft . It is a fairly standard , fully reimbursable interconnect with Questar . Transwestern will own and operate the interconnect . You will notice that Questar has requested a " Payment Plan " that details when they will pay Transwestern for the interconnect due to the recent Enron events . If anyone has any questions or concerns about the timing of these payments , please give me a call . Also , you will notice this interconnect may not be subject to the CIAC tax gross up , but to protect ourselves , we have added language in Para 3. that protects us financially if the IRS ever comes back to determine that this interconnect is subject to the CIAC tax . Robert Guthrie with the tax department has worked with us to develop this language . We hope to execute this Agreement this week . If you have any comments , please let me know . After execution , we will forward a final copy to you for your files . Thanks , Kim 713-853-3098 << File : Questar So Trails Hub Interconnect 02-05-02.doc >> Are you back in the office yet ? We 've booked Italy tickets this week for departing Houston on Friday , May 24 to Newark / Rome and returning on Sunday , June 9 from Rome to Newark / Houston . Ticket price was $ 1,183 per ticket . Paul and Judy are on board . Can you and Tom join us ? Janell and Dennis will not be able to go anywhere in 2002 due to Janell 's broken leg . Please call me , let 's discuss . Thanks , Kim X33098 John , sorry for the late response , but I think you can implement immediately . I was in a meeting last week and this was discussed ( I do n't remember if you were there or not ) but I 'm thinking that you may have already proceeded ahead for implementation which is great , thanks ! Kim . The telephony group has the new TW Hotline number and extensions ready for use , I have the solution center entering the greetings and Terry Kowalke has a new form and procedure for the Customer Service Reps. to use for updates . How much notification would you like to give the TW customers before implementing the new TW Hotline phone number ? We can do a Popup notification along with changing the number on the Web page , we can also put out a Critical message which will send an Email to customers . Do you think we need to do more ? Thanks : John Buchanan Yes , thanks . I was aware . I just could n't remember if it was you or Terry . Thanks , Kim . Kim , The new TW Hotline was implemented Monday which included customer notification in the form of a Popup message in TMS and a Critical Notice which sent an Email . The new Hotline phone number is 713-853-3044 . I was under the impression that Terry Kowalke had notified you of the implementation , TK was also made aware . John Buchanan John , sorry for the late response , but I think you can implement immediately . I was in a meeting last week and this was discussed ( I do n't remember if you were there or not ) but I 'm thinking that you may have already proceeded ahead for implementation which is great , thanks ! Kim . The telephony group has the new TW Hotline number and extensions ready for use , I have the solution center entering the greetings and Terry Kowalke has a new form and procedure for the Customer Service Reps. to use for updates . How much notification would you like to give the TW customers before implementing the new TW Hotline phone number ? We can do a Popup notification along with changing the number on the Web page , we can also put out a Critical message which will send an Email to customers . Do you think we need to do more ? Thanks : John Buchanan Here it is . K . See the attached spreadsheet . Let me know if you have any questions . Jan , These numbers are slightly different from the ones you put together a few weeks ago . Are you comfortable with the difference ? Any thoughts ? No hurry , I was just wondering . Thanks , Kim . Attached is the TW Top Ten Shippers by Revenues for the year 2001 to be reported in the Browncover report . Note : Total transportation invoiced for 2001 was $ 180.9 m . The amount of transportation revenues recorded in the general ledger is $ 165.9 m . This difference is mainly due to the following : $ 10.0 m - negotiated rates reserve ( Reliant , Sempra , Richardson , Astr , and BP Energy ) - $ collected $ 2.7 m - SoCal rate issue - $ not collected $ 1.8 m - additional month of PGE revenues due to prepayment invoicing beginning in 2001 - $ collected Revenues for these customers were adjusted according . Also , revenues for the shippers acquiring released volumes from PGE at rates above TW 's tariff rates were adjusted accordingly . Please call me at x36709 if there are questions thanks , richard Kyle , Sorry for not sending this yesterday . Monday's are always tough . Please review and let me know what you think . Let 's talk before I leave town next Wednesday . Thanks , Kim . Kim , Here is the Job Description and the Operational Accountabilities for the position I mentioned to you last Sunday . As you can see it will take someone with some very good skills in organizing and interpersonal relationships . It will also require someone who is fairly mature in their own spiritual journey . If you know someone who might fit the bill ask them to contact me and / or send me their resume . See you Sunday . Tom Thomas W. Daugherty Vice President for Spiritual Care Methodist Health Care System 6565 Fannin Street , D - 200 Houston , Texas 77030-2707 Office : 713-793-1429 Page : 281-735-5919 Cell : 713-819-2784 Fax : 713-790-2605 Mansoor , Let 's discuss . Kim . Kim The in - service date of May 1 , will be very difficult to attain . Since the bankruptcy filing , vendors have been very reluctant to ship material prior to it being prepaid ( Daniels , Fisher , Rosemont , other ) . These are the vendors of instrumentation required for the interconnect . Questar may be able to purchase material , but some of the items can have up to a 60 day delivery . ( From time PA approved and funded to in - service will be 75 days at most . We have worked with Daniels on a chromatograph on another project and prepayment has taken 45 days alone . Daniels is not set up for prepayments as they bill off an invoice and the main office and accounting had to create an invoice for a chromatograph that had not been delivered . Not the usual mode of operations . The I/C design is for a UltraSonic meter and this is dependent on their testing schedule ( Canada or Kansas are the only two places to test to 100 % of design ) . Will confirm testing schedule and delivery dates with UltraSonic ASAP . We will try to complete the I/C with the earliest in - service date possible , but with conditions as they are , a realistic date would be June 15 , 2002 . If you have questions or issues , please let me know . Thanks Earl Chanley 505-625-8031 Earl , We are looking at putting the metering facilities on their ROW ( also , I think we will have to purchase about 50 ft of ROW from ElPaso to get to Questar 's property ) . As you look at this , if for some reason we can not obtain ElPaso ROW , we will have to look at Plan B which would be to put the metering on our ROW . Our in - service date is May 1 . If you think that May 1 may be difficult due to receiving the parts / materials on a timely basis because of the issues that vendors may have with us because of recent Enron events , please let me know . Questar has already informed us that they would help obtain parts / materials to our specifications if it helps achieve an in - service date of May 1 . Thanks , Kim . Listening to the Edison call w/ investors Edison says they will pay everyone at the same time ( " big bang " approach ) sometime in Q1 '02 . My concern is that between now and then Dunn , the AG have the time and resources to make a heckuvalot of mischief , which could be detrimental to generators / marketers ' claims . Investors are asking what Edison intends for QFs and generators -- asking about haircuts in particular -- and Edison is side - stepping the questions . Great . Figured they 'd contacted them , but wanted to make sure . You know when the meeting with schedulers will be ? I apologize , I 'm on the road and have n't heard when that will be . I 'm thinking that I may want to attend . Thanks . Best , Jeff Thanks for the info - a few people from our shop will be in attendance ./ If you have n't heard , SoCal 's announced their abandoning windows for OFOs . They 're holding " workshops " on how it will all work soon . I 'll get you the announcement . Best , Jeff Probing the ' palace coup ' Electricity : A panel focuses on price hikes and the actions of the ISO president . September 26 , 2001 By KIMBERLY KINDY The Orange County Register SACRAMENTO A state Senate committee is set today to start serving 16 subpoenas on electricity producers and officials who manage California 's energy grid to determine whether they acted in concert to manipulate energy prices . The investigative committee , headed by state Sen. Joe Dunn , D - Santa Ana , is focusing on a series of events last fall filled with enough Shakespearean plot twists and intrigue that it has earned a name around the Capitol : " the palace coup . " Lawmakers and consumer groups allege that the events - directed by the man who heads the state 's energy grid - fueled the California energy crisis , pushed the state into the power - buying business and helped make billions of dollars for power producers . The central question behind the palace coup is whether Terry Winter , the president of the Independent System Operator , acted alone when he took steps to remove key price caps designed to limit the amount power generators could charge . Winter defied his own board and Gov. Gray Davis when he filed a 50 - page request to remove the caps , records and interviews show . " I do n't know how these events could have taken place without some concerted effort , " said Dunn . The subpoenas will force those involved , including Winter , to provide sworn testimony about the events to the committee , and to turn over e-mails , personal calendars and memos . Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio said the governor felt " betrayed " by the actions of Winter . " The governor believes it was the defining moment , when what was a mounting problem turned into an instant crisis , " Maviglio said . Winter refused comment , referring all questions to the public relations office . ISO spokesman Gregg Fishman said Dunn 's committee will find no criminal conduct . The decision was made by ISO upper management with one goal in mind : to keep the lights on . At the time , generators were refusing to sell power in California because of the price caps . " It was an emergency , " Fishman said . " We had to take action . '' What became known as the palace coup began on Oct. 26 when ISO board members voted for severe restrictions on the amount of money electricity producers could charge for power . The restrictions would drive prices as low as $ 65 per megawatt - nearly 12 times below the $ 750 per megawatt limits of seven months earlier . " They ( electricity generators ) grinned and beared the $ 750 price cap , but this new plan by ISO was too much , " said Dunn , whose committee has been investigating since March . " All hell broke loose . '' Records show that on Oct. 31 , power generators and electricity traders filed letters with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission , demanding that the new plan be killed . The letters , six in all , were sent within two hours of each other and represented dozens of power generators . " If not removed immediately , the ( ISO ) price cap will sow confusion in the market , threaten reliability and stifle new investment in generating capacity , '' read one letter written by Duke Energy Vice President William Hall III . Although there is nothing illegal about the generators acting together to lobby against price caps , Dunn believes the letters and other actions around the same time showed clear coordination among energy officials . He said the main aim of the subpoenas will be to determine whether collusion occurred to " fix " prices , which would violate federal trade laws . In the Oct. 31 letters , electricity producers told federal officials that if price caps were n't removed it would lead to a collapse of the energy market . The generators got their way . The next day , the federal commission killed the new pricing plan . What was left in place was a $ 250 price cap established five months earlier . Power producers then turned their attention toward killing that cap , saying they could n't make a profit even under these constraints . They began to withhold power from California , and on Dec. 7 the ISO declared its first Stage 3 emergency and braced for blackouts , which were narrowly averted . What followed the next day is considered by the governor and Dunn to be the pivotal moment of the energy crisis . Winter , who in his position as president and chief operating officer of the ISO , submitted a 50 - page emergency request , asking federal officials to abolish the $ 250 price cap . Final authority over lifting the cap rested with the federal government . Neither the ISO board , which had established the price cap , nor the governor learned of Winter 's actions until the cap had been removed . In fact , the attorney who helped draft the emergency request , Charles Robinson , was in a meeting with representatives of the governor and ISO board members just hours before the filing was made . He did n't mention anything about it . " In retrospect , we should have told them , '' Robinson said . With the price caps gone , the generators filed paperwork with federal regulators justifying higher costs . " The ISO staff sat in a meeting with the governor 's key energy advisers with poker faces , not saying a word about something that was going on at the exact same moment , '' Maviglio said . " It was beyond belief that they failed to mention something so significant . This action accelerated the utilities ' move toward bankruptcy and forced the governor to move the state into the power - buying business . " Prices for electricity jumped from an average of $ 249 a megawatt to $ 700 a megawatt within three days , ISO records show . Dunn believes the resulting overcharges for electricity exceeded $ 30 billion . Robinson said the filing - granted two hours after the request - helped rather than hurt Californians . Prices , he said , did not spike as a result . Instead they followed the skyrocketing price of natural gas - which is used to run power plants to generate electricity . Robinson said the emergency order allowed the ISO to secure refunds should overcharges for electricity be proven to federal officials . " We believe the action we took addressed a severe concern , '' Robinson said . " In our view , we did not believe we changed or made worse the financial situation . We felt we made it better because it introduced a process for review and refund . " Jan Smutney - Jones , who was the ISO board chairman at the time and executive director of a group that represents power generators , said Winter did not consult him about eliminating the price cap . Smutney - Jones also said he was unaware of anyone in the power - generating community being consulted . " Terry did this by himself , '' said Smutney - Jones , executive director of the Independent Energy Producers . " He did what he thought had to be done at the time to keep the power flowing . " The ISO board called an emergency meeting the next week demanding Winter explain his actions . Some board members pushed to have Winter removed , but there were concerns such action would lead to more chaos , the governor 's spokesman Maviglio said . James J. Hoecker , the former Federal Energy Regulatory Commission chairman , defended making the December decision and also defended Winter . " They filed an emergency motion , and we were not about to let California go dark , '' Hoecker said . " They ( ISO management ) did what any independent system operator would do . " What Dunn 's committee hopes to learn is why all these events transpired . He believes memos and e-mails around the time of Winter 's Dec. 8 actions should provide vital clues . " We do n't know why he did what he did , but we are eager to find out , " Dunn said . " Terry said he made that filing in the interest of Californians , but I find that argument has no basis in fact . '' We should resurrect Mike Smith 's note and get him on the call in the attempt to avoid recreating the wheel on this one . I can dig it up if you 'd like . Sue and Jeff -- I am having a meeting with Vicki and Janet Dietrich on Thursday to discuss our view on the ability to extend our current contracts in CA ( for customers already on DA ) . Can we discuss this today or soon thereafter . My take is that the UDCs will be indifferent to this ( maybe ? ) and our # 1 priority is to work to get the PG&E model adopted across the state . Any news on how SCE and SDG&E will move forward ? Thanks . Sounds good . I suggest a " blind draw " on the teams , best ball not scramble on the golf , and as for the wager , no emails from the losing team for one week ! Is there any question ? I 'll leave to Steve to structure the deal . As I recall , Montavano , Shapiro and I usually make up one team , but I 'm willing to switch around a bit . Best , Jeff Are you playing golf ? And if yes , what 's the game and wager ??? Jim " Neal S. Manne " < NMANNE@SusmanGodfrey.com > 11/28/2000 06:16 PM It 's a two way street , of course . Have they expressed any interest in negotiating ? There is nothing wrong with a REAL negotiation , but nothing particularly helpful about generating one that s just for show . Particularly in the absence of any entreaty from them . Where is the " simple " explanation of the transportation piece ? As I have told RNR , I think we should advise Duke in writing that its IP is not in conformity with the contract , since it is in the alternative , and that our IP is hence the only one that will be before the arbitrators ( since Duke clearly can not change it's ineffective IP at this stage , having already seen ours ) . Accordingly , the only issue left for arbitration is whether our IP ( the only one and therefore the one they have to choose ) is or is not an economic hardship under the contract . What say ye ? none Susan Rance@ENRON 11/28/2000 03:58 PM By Friday December 1st , could you please tell me the percentages / amount of time you spent on East Coast Power during the months of October and November . In addition , could you look over the list below to see if there are any additional employees in your group that spent time on ECP , so we can ensure we bill all of our used resources to ECP . Thanks for you cooperation . *** Mary Perkins - Could you forward the number of transactions and accounts . *** Jason Chumley - Could you forward the number of contractor hours and help / remote support hours . HR - Veronica Parra , Nedre Strambler , Fran Mayes , Felicia Solis Legal - Bob Carter , Travis McCullough , Lisa Mellencamp , Shelia Tweed , Richard Sanders , Michelle Cash Corporate Finance - Joe Deffner , Brain Kerrigan , Lewis Worthy , Mary Perkins IT - Jason Chumley Structuring / Technology - Brad Alford , Chris Coffman , Bill Keeney Insurance - David Marshall Susan Looks good Steve Van Hooser 11/28/2000 11:34 AM Richard , How does this look ? If I can get a few minutes with Mark H. today , I 'm going to propose that I speak to Stan Klimberg about getting this signed before Thursday 's meeting with LIPA . Thanks for your help this morning . Steve In the three years I have been here , I am unaware of an ENA / ECT bad faith claim against any insurance company . Anyone else ? If so , please contact Michelle . Michelle Blaine@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 11/28/2000 07:35 PM Justin , I have no knowledge of any bad faith actins Enron has pending in Texas but I will call Richard Sanders who manages domestic litgation here . I 've read the materials you sent and agree we need to address these allegations appropriately . Richard do you have any bad faith litigation pending against any insurers in Texas or are you aware of any Enron has filed ?? We sued Houston Casualty last year but I do n't recall making any bad faith claims . It settled anyway , a long time ago . mb Michelle , Did you get my fax on Friday ? I guess the questions on which I should like your steer are : ( a ) Do you have a particular sensitivity about the reference to bad faith proceedings made by United India ? ( b ) Is it right that Enron has 3 sets of bad faith proceedings in Texas ? ( c ) Are you happy with the draft letter to Beachcrofts I sent you ? Please give me a call if you would like to discuss . Justin Not when I was there , but I was n't there the whole time . Michelle and Ken , were you able to discuss the " bad faith " proceedings issue yesterday ? If you got the chance today , I should be really grateful if one of you could give me a call to discuss this issue ; I think we should set out DPC 's position clearly on this in correspondence without too much delay . Justin ____________________________________________________________ This message is confidential . It may also be privileged or otherwise protected by work product immunity or other legal rules . If you have received it by mistake please let us know by reply and then delete it from your system ; you should not copy the message or disclose its contents to anyone . ____________________________________________________________ Address this to Robin Gibbs for my signature . Thanks . Russell Montgomery@ENRON 11/28/2000 08:22 AM Richard - Per my voice mail , here is the letter . As I mentioned , please let me know when it is ready , and I will send someone to pick it up . Thank you for your help . Russ 3-5297 brianp@aiglincoln.com Rob Jacobs < rsjacobs@Encoreacq.com > 11/28/2000 11:25 AM Hi Rich , Have you heard if the Kinga has had little Brian II yet ? Also , remind me of Patterson 's email , so I can harass him directly . Hope your pre Chanukah planning is going well . Rob - C.DTF As you can tell from the time of my e-mail , I am getting crushed . Please ask her to be the contact person . Robert C Williams@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 11/28/2000 09:46 AM Now that Michelle is in your fold , do you want to reconsider her being the contact person with AAA on this ? I am sending you a letter from their atty . Call me to discuss . Cheryl Marshall 11/27/2000 10:25 AM As of today , we have not received payment in full as requested in Richard Sanders ' letter dated November 16 , 2000 . We did receive a payment for $ 3,202.61 on 11-20-2000 . Richard - please let me know what we need to do next to file suit . Nuria_R_Ibarra@calpx.com on 04/28/2000 11:15:11 AM The attached letter is being sent to you from Patricia Gillman . ( See attached file : Sanders Letter 4_28_00.doc ) - Sanders Letter 4_28_00.doc Richard B Sanders 11/28/2000 09:56 PM I am sending you a letter from their atty . Call me to discuss . Cheryl Marshall 11/27/2000 10:25 AM As of today , we have not received payment in full as requested in Richard Sanders ' letter dated November 16 , 2000 . We did receive a payment for $ 3,202.61 on 11-20-2000 . Richard - please let me know what we need to do next to file suit . Has Liz finished with gathering the documents ? melanie.gray@weil.com 11/13/2000 03:43 PM Here are the revised dates for the response / reply / and hearing dates for Enron 's motion to compel . As you may recall , they say they want a deposition on the parties ' intention . We should be expecting a deposition notice soon if they are going to follow through on their threat . I passed along to Liz Austin your request regarding pleadings A&K has filed setting forth the Trustee 's position in connection with the enforcement / nonenforcement of the power contracts and what remedies the Trustee is seeking . As you see below , she is pulling those together . Call to discuss the response to the Trustee 's settlement offer . Thanks . Hi -- Talked to Craig and the Court today . The motion to compel is now scheduled for Dec. 12 at 2 p.m . The trustee 's oppositon papers are now due Nov 27 and Enron reply is due Dec 1 . I have my paralegal gathering the pleadings Enron requested . That is all for now . -- Liz ********** NOTE ********** The information contained in this email message is intended only for use of the individual or entity named above . If the reader of this message is not the intended recipient , or the employee or agent responsible to deliver it to the intended recipient , you are hereby notified that any dissemination , distribution or copying of this communication is strictly prohibited . If you have received this communication in error , please immediately notify us by telephone ( 713-546-5000 ) , and destroy the original message . Thank you . " Gerry Strathmann " < gstrathmann@mediaone.net > 11/08/2000 02:19 PM Dear Mr. Sanders - ? While I left a you a phone message with some information about our project , I thought I could give you some additional details by e-mail as well ... ? We are still very interested in having Enron support our eCommerce Dispute Management Protocol .? We have had enthusiastic responses from companies such as AT&T , Duke Energy , Pitney Bowes and Daimler Chrysler , and I would be pleased to answer any questions you may have about this focal point for our educational efforts .? The real purpose of my call , however , is related to the services we will provide to support the aspirational statements of the Protocol . I am a member of the design group that has been developing the American Arbitration Association 's dispute management systems and services for eCommerce B2B transactions .? At this time we are putting together small working groups to validate some of our assumptions and refine our initial service offerings . Initially our design group , along with perhaps one of our technology consultants , would like to meet with a group of Enron people for half a day .? Ideally this group would consist of four to six people from finance , legal , and operations so that we get good cross-functional feedback about our services .? Before the meeting we would provide you with a brief description of our proposed service offerings and a list of points for discussion at the meeting . The real focus of the meeting will be on how we should build these services to meet the needs of businesses operating in B2B marketplaces .? We are very concerned with providing services that are relevant to that environment . We would like to meet between November 14 and ? December 1 ? since construction of our services is already underway .? Please let me know what is possible , and feel free to give me a call if you have any questions ( 978-376-9004 ) . ? Thanks . -> Gerry Gerry Strathmann eCommerce Group American Arbitration Association ( 978 ) 376-9004 303-294-4499 " Neal S. Manne " < NMANNE@SusmanGodfrey.com > 11/29/2000 09:52 AM Thanks , Richard . Do you have a tel # for Mike ? Thanks . Mark Palmer@ENRON 11/29/2000 10:45 AM I 'll send a copy of the suit filed against the generators as soon as I get it . Mark " Leopold , Jason " < Jason.Leopold@dowjones.com > 11/29/2000 10:40 AM Hello Energyphiles : OK , perhaps it was inevitable . But it is now official . A team of San Diego 's best anti-trust and class action attorneys has been assembled to take on the electric generators and marketers in California state court in an effort to return the electricity overcharges that have battered San Diego and the rest of California this year . A press conference will be held to discuss the consumer class action lawsuit to be filed today . WHEN : 11 am - noon WHERE : 550 West C St. ( b/t Columbia & India ) Suite 1810 Law Offices of Levine , Steinberg , Miller & Huver 619-231-9449 WHAT : Copies of the filed complaint will be made available at that time . UCAN 's executive director and the attorney team will be available to answer questions about the complaint . We are hopeful that we can post the complaint to the UCAN web site later today . *********************************** " Time is the best teacher , except for the fact that it kills off its best students " Michael Shames Executive Director Utility Consumers ' Action Network 1717 Kettner Blvd. Suite 105 San Diego , CA 92101 619-696-6966 mshames@ucan.org the industry of Marriage and Kids , you heard me . Marriage is , in and of itself , a noble concept , but it too often leads to kids and kids flat out suck . How can I say such an abomination , ask you ? Look around you and notice all the mind numbing trailor trash cretins out there who should not be procreating , yet they do . These are the people who keep Jerry springer on the air . These are the kids who will destroy society , because of the crapfest the American family has become under the post hippie culture , you heard again . And you might think by reading this I blame the kids ..... Not so , Kids are what kids are and will do what they do . It is literally monkey see and monkey do with them . That will likely never change . It 's the bad parents out there who fuck up their lives and do nt seem to understand that once you decide to have kids , it is indeed time to grow up and be a responsible role model for those kids . Very few parents do this . And this is a direct result of the Politically correct , permissive , time out granting bullshit liberal culture that has caused this . When you blame it all on society , there 's noone to to take responsibility and all of a sudden you have generation of fucked up kids who are likley smoking , drinking , doing drugs , fucking the neighbor or some internet perv just because you are too lazy to see waht they 're doing . People like this will never have my sympathy , nor do they deserve my sympathy . Look inside yourselves parents , is this you ? Probably it is . Fuck you . Stop trying to pawn your brats off on others to " get a break " . You made a choice to be a mommy , you do nt get a break until they move out , that s the choice that you madea and that 's life . Tough shit . Just because you 're stuck , does nt give you the right to drag down all the singles around you . Another time I 'll segueway into all the fun work related instances where " Mommies " get out of doing work and hiding behind childcare as the reason . This is the insidious conspiracy I call " Mommism " . It must be stamped out . [ http://www.newsday.com/news/opinion/ny-vpnasa054135614feb05,0,5979821.story?coll=ny-editorials-headlines ] ( Newsday.com ) It looks like NASA is ready to sour again after it's devastating loss from the Columbia accident which occurred nearly two years ago . Now , NASA engineers and astronauts are almost giddy with " go " fever as the tentative date for the first launch since the Columbia disaster approaches . The most important question is n't whether Discovery is technically ready to fly with new safety features and emergency procedures , but whether the agency itself has learned from the crucial errors most common to Challenger and Columbia , errors that grew out of a management culture that discouraged criticism and sacrificed safety for image - puffing and budget - cutting . I hope so . Seeing another " Columbia " incident can be quite frightening ( I woke up to it early in the morning when I was in Texas ) . We do n't need another incident as exploring the cosmos is something that keeps our imagination going as a species . Maybe one day they will allow space tourism , ( hopefully that will be in the near future ) although I would recommend that NASA build new shuttles instead of trying to preserve the older ones . You do have to give NASA credit on some things as they have eliminated the " fear of reporting failure " culture that probably led to the lack of reporting defects on the Columbia shuttle . Instead they are encouraging everyone to come forward if they see any potential problems ( as it is clear that overlooked problems could result in unnecessary losses ) . But supporters are pointing a few good things out : Clearly , the agency has worked hard at tackling the technical challenges posed by a superb and surprisingly independent - minded investigative panel . A few weeks ago , shuttle workers at the Kennedy Space Center received a rocket - like boost in morale with two important deliveries for the next shuttle to carry . One is a special tool to detect damage to the thermal - protective tile while in orbit - something the Columbia crew would have welcomed . The other is a new fuel tank " guaranteed " by NASA not to shed potentially fatal hunks of insulation . NASA has some PR hurdles to overcome in the future . But let s hope for their sake ( and the sake of all space lovers out there ) that they can redefine their image and rekindle the hope of space colonization again . Selah . -- Posted by Hidden Nook to Hidden Nook at 2/7/2005 01:09:32 AM Healing the Collective Body In George Orwell 's influential novel " 1984 " doublethink is a device promoted by the totalitarian state government to make people accept two irreconcilable ideas at the same time such as " war is peace " . I see the merit in flowing with duality . One of my most cherished dualities is the understanding that we are both autonomous individuals with the power to shape our personal destinies and at the same time we are all one , that there is no separation between you and I , we are all together in this thing called life , we human beings , the birds and the tress , the rocks and the sky , all of it . I have written a lot recently about healing the self so today here are a few words on healing our collective body , mind and soul . Think of all life , if you will , as one great choir or one grand congregation . Our strength is in our unity and harmony . Any major dischord and we all suffer . Any insult to the collective good brings us all down . Living out of synch with nature is the great disease , from that flows all the tributaries we have come to think of as sickness . We are only as strong as our weakest , we are only as healthy as the sickest amongst us - playing sports and being in the army taught me that lesson before I was finished being a teenager . When the healthy treat the sick with scorn and intolerance it brings us all down . When those lucky enough not to have Herpes create a climate of shame and indignity for those of us who do , not only are they hurting us , but they are hurting themselves . There is no escape from the collective ocean we all swim in . What you project will always come back to either reward or haunt you . We are now suffering from the consequences of our rape of the environment , our rejection of the natural for the industrial , and our embrace of violence over peace . Jesus said that what you do the least of the people you do to him . What are you doing to the least of the people ? If we are all in this thing together , let 's play nice . Remember that what you do to yourself affects me and everybody else , remember that what you do to me and anyone else shapes your destiny . No matter what progress we make as individuals in becoming healthier , we will never achieve real health until we collectively decide to create a healthier reality . Fortunately circumstances will force our hand soon since our collective bad behaviour can not continue indefinitely . In the near future collective choices will need to be made . Will we choose to live in harmony with this planet or crash and burn in a conflagration of arrogance and disregard ? Will we choose to rise about prejudice and intolerance or go down kicking and screaming with holding on to fear and anger ? There is no health without peace and no peace without health . November 2005 Sunshine Coast , British Columbia , Canada Christopher Scipio Homeopath / Herbalist Holistic Viral Specialist One Simple Idea . One Huge Opportunity . What are you searching for ? More personal freedom ? More time with your family ? Independent wealth ? Freedom from the fear of corporate downsizing ? Whether you are looking for a part - time income to help pay off your debts or you are looking for the freedom offered by working from home on a full time basis , Agel is the vehicle that can make that happen . Agel is a new company and is uniquely positioned to be the next giant in the network marketing industry . The company has developed an entirely new category of products . Imagine being part of the next industry - changing innovation . Innovative Products Agel introduces an entirely new category of products called Gelceuticals . The company has developed a unique and innovative delivery mechanism for nutritional products . This proprietary Gel Suspension technology makes possible single serving packets of Gelceuticals . In this delivery format , your body can immediately start receiving the benefits of the product components as the absorption of vitamins , minerals and nutrients is maximized . Never before has such a convenient method been available for consuming nutritional products . Consider these convenience factors : No water needed ( as with tablets or capsules ) Exotic juice benefits without the big bottle ( no glass and water weight ) Single serving packages ( imagine the sampling capabilities ) Perfect for those with difficulty swallowing tablets or capsules Faster , more efficient , delivery to the body Learn More Revolutionary Compensation Agel has created a new compensation structure that is truly revolutionary . It is our belief that this compensation plan will produce some of the largest checks in network marketing history . The plan ca n't be described as a binary , a breakaway , a unilevel , or a forced matrix . It is a revolutionary hybrid . What is long term viability ? It is not just company longevity . If you used to make $ 100 k and now only make $ 30 k , this is not long term viability . Ten years later your check should still be the same or greater , fulfilling the promise of long - term residual income . The Agel compensation plan includes the principles that ensure that promise can be fulfilled for those who work at it . Are you unsure of Agel ? Take time to discover the unlimited possibilities with Agel ! The call will feature a host of other field leaders , and our founder and CEO , Glen Jensen . This call will smoke ! You will discover : · How to Create the Security of Residual Income ; · Why Agel is the Best Vehicle to Live Your Dreams ; · The Amazing Scientific Breakthrough Behind the Products ; · How the " Quadra - Plan " Builds Bigger Bonus Checks Faster ; · The Support System in Place to Help You Build Stronger ; and · The Secret to Lock in a " Legacy " Position ! Here are the numbers to call : 620-294-4000 or 620-294-3000 The Passcode to participate is : 5107 DATE : Tuesday , November 22 , 2005 TIME : 8:00 PM Eastern Standard Time LOCATION : Conference Call 5:00 PT ** 6:00 MT ** 7:00 CT ** 8:00 ET I 'll see you there ! Steve Fillmore 612-205-9814 620-294-1909 Email : " Dharmadeva " < dharmad...@gmail.com > Namaskar Hi All ! We now present the kaoshikii dance , which is excellent before and after yoga postures . I encourage you to do this dance , as it has tremendous positive effects . It is a dance for both males and females . Dharma -- Kaoshikii is a dance which was invented in 1978 by Shrii Shrii A'nandamu'rti . It is a psycho-spiritual exercise and benefiting the mind by developing stamina and strength . Kaoshikii is especially good for women . It can ward off and cure a number of diseases , keeps the body youthful and enables an easy delivery in childbirth . Kaoshikii comes from the Sanskrit word ' kosa ' meaning shell or layer of mind . The self of the individual lies hidden in the innermost layers of existence ( kosas ) . Thus kaoshikii is a blossoming of the microcosm ( unit being ) in its attempt to attain a link with the Macrocosm ( Cosmic Consciousness ) . This attempt is normally referred to as mysticism . -- The Benefits Exercises all the glands and limbs from head to toes . Increases longevity . Makes for easy delivery at childbirth . The spine will become flexible . Arthritis of the spine , neck , waist and other joints will be removed . Gout in the spine , neck , hands and waist will be lost . The mind becomes strong and sharp . Irregularities in menstruation will be cured . Glandular secretions will become regulated . Troubles in the bladder and urethra will be cured . Gives control over the limbs . Adds charm and shine to the face and skin . Removes wrinkles . Removes lethargy . Cures insomnia . Cures hysteria . Fear complexes will be removed . Hopelessness will be lost . Helps in self - expression and develops one 's potentiality . Spinal pain , piles , hernia , hydrocele in men , nervous pain , nervous disability will be cured . Cures kidney and gall bladder troubles , gastric trouble , dyspepsia , acidity , dysentery , obesity and liver diseases . Increases the capacity to work until 75 - 80 years of age . -- The Dance The eighteen steps of the dance are done rhythmically . First the dancer begins in the starting position : the hands together and raised over the head . Then to the beat of " dhin , dhin , ... , ta' , ta' " , the dancers begin their step , placing the big toe behind the heel of the other foot . In the final two steps , the dancers firmly stamp their feet on the ground . Kaoshikii can be danced for as many rounds as you like . -- The Ideation When the dancers start the step with the beat of " dhin , dhin ... " , the mental ideation should also be kept . Here is the ideation . The two hands when upraised and folded together represent : " Now I am trying to establish a link with Parama Purus'a ( Supreme Consciousness ) . " Bending to the right indicates : " I know the right way to request You . " Bending to the left indicates : " I know how to fulfil Your demands . " Bending forward suggests : " I completely surrender to You . " Bending backward represents : " I am ready to face all obstacles that may come . " The last two steps represent : " O Lord I repeat Your cosmic rhythm . " Quebecker wins U.S. bravery award Pittsburgh - A Quebec man was awarded a Carnegie Medal for bravery on Monday for saving two friends by fighting off a polar bear with a pocket knife two years ago on Baffin Island Dr. Eric Fortier , 34 , of Gatineau , Que. , used a pocket knife to attack a polar bear on Baffin Island , just south of the Arctic Circle , to save two friends who were being mauled . " All of the research and all of the preparation I did leading up to the trip gave no indication that there were bears in the Soper [ River ] valley where we were canoeing , " Dr. Fortier said . Dr. Fortier , an orthodontist , learned there was at least one polar bear in the central region of Baffin Island in July 2001 when he felt what he thought was a dog leaning on his tent wall . " My first thought was to push it away , " he said . " A few seconds later my girlfriend saw the shadow of a bear 's paw through the tent fly and then it started ripping through the ceiling . " The polar bear is more dangerous than most other bears . The latter usually consider human beings a threat but the polar bear considers humans a snack , experts said . The two screamed to frighten the bear and warn their friends in a tent several metres away but the bear ripped into that tent and began mauling 31 - year - old Alain Parenteau . " Their screams changed , " Dr. Fortier said . " I grabbed my glasses and my knife and unzipped my tent and headed out . " The bear dwarfed the 6 - foot - 1 Mr. Parenteau , knocking him to the ground , he said . Dr. Fortier threw a large rock at the bear , distracting it and allowing Parenteau to escape but it then turned on 25 - year - old Patricia Doyon , who was in the same tent . Again Dr. Fortier threw rocks at the bear and again its target was able to escape . " The bear gave chase and I gave chase , " he said . " At some point , Patricia tripped or the bear tripped her and was at her back . I was beside the bear 's head and I stabbed it with an upper cut below the jaw in the neck a couple of times . " The bear ran off . While there was some fur and blood on the nine - centimetre blade , Dr. Fortier said he does n't think he hurt the bear badly . Both Mr. Parenteau and Ms. Doyon , however , were bleeding badly . Dr. Fortier and his girlfriend lashed two canoes together and paddled eight kilometres along the Soper River . Dr. Fortier travelled another three kilometres by foot to seek help in the nearest settlement . Both Mr. Parenteau and Ms. Doyon were airlifted to a hospital and survived , though Mr. Parenteau had a gash within a centimetre of his jugular , Dr. Fortier said . Dr. Fortier was one of 15 people to receive the Carnegie Medal on Monday . The bronze medal is given to people who " risk their lives to an extraordinary degree while saving or attempting to save the lives of others . " The other Canadian recipient of the medal was Ronald Joseph Crawford , 42 , of Hamilton , who was killed Aug. 4 , 2002 , while trying to defend a Hamilton sandwich shop owner from a robber wielding a knife . Mr. Crawford threw several punches at the assailant before he was stabbed in the heart . U.S. industrialist Andrew Carnegie started a hero fund in 1904 after being inspired by rescue stories from a mine disaster that killed 181 people . The award comes with a $ 3,500 ( U.S. ) grant . Important information of big companies Apple Computers It was the favorite fruit of founder Steve Jobs . He was three months late in filing a name for the business , and he threatened to call his company Apple Computers if the other colleagues did n't suggest a better name by 5 O'clock . CISCO It is not an acronym as popularly believed . It is short for San Francisco . Compaq This name was formed by using COMp , for computer , and PAQ to denote a small integral object . Corel The name was derived from the founder 's name Dr. Michael Cowpland . It stands for COwpland REsearch Laboratory . Google The name started as a joke boasting about the amount of information the search - engine would be able to search . It was originally named ' Googol ' , a word for the number represented by 1 followed by 100 zeros . After founders - Stanford graduate students Sergey Brin and Larry Page presented their project to an angel investor , they received a cheque made out to ' Google ' Hotmail Founder Jack Smith got the idea of accessing e-mail via the web from a computer anywhere in the world . When Sabeer Bhatia came up with the business plan for the mail service , he tried all kinds of names ending in ' mail ' and finally settled for hotmail as it included the letters " html " - the programming language used to write web pages . It was initially referred to as HoTMaiL with selective uppercasing . Hewlett Packard Bill Hewlett and Dave Packard tossed a coin to decide whether the company they founded would be called Hewlett - Packard or Packard - Hewlett . Intel Bob Noyce and Gordon Moore wanted to name their new company ' Moore Noyce ' but that was already trademarked by a hotel chain so they had to settle for an acronym of INTegrated ELectronics . Lotus ( Notes ) Mitch Kapor got the name for his company from ' The Lotus Position ' or ' Padmasana ' . Kapor used to be a teacher of Transcendental Meditation of Maharishi Mahesh Yogi . Microsoft Coined by Bill Gates to represent the company that was devoted to MICROcomputer SOFTware . Originally christened Micro - Soft , the ' - ' was removed later on . Motorola Founder Paul Galvin came up with this name when his company started manufacturing radios for cars . The popular radio company at the time was called Victrola . ORACLE Larry Ellison and Bob Oats were working on a consulting project for the CIA ( Central Intelligence Agency ) . The code name for the project was called Oracle ( the CIA saw this as the system to give answers to all questions or something such ) . The project was designed to help use the newly written SQL code by IBM . The project eventually was terminated but Larry and Bob decided to finish what they started and bring it to the world . They kept the name Oracle and created the RDBMS engine . Later they kept the same name for the company . Sony It originated from the Latin word ' sonus ' meaning sound , and ' sonny ' a slang used by Americans to refer to a bright youngster . SUN Founded by 4 Stanford University buddies , SUN is the acronym for Stanford University Network . Andreas Bechtolsheim built a microcomputer ; Vinod Khosla recruited him and Scott McNealy to manufacture computers based on it , and recruited Bill Joy to develop a UNIX - based OS for the computer . Yahoo! The word was invented by Jonathan Swift and used in his book ' Gulliver 's Travels ' . It represents a person who is repulsive in appearance and action and is barely human . Yahoo! Founders Jerry Yang and David Filo selected the name because they considered themselves yahoos ... I am on Yahoo ! Email : mayur...@yahoo.com SMS : + 919819602175 Web : Hi all , There are already several forums around the net focused on discussing Guild Wars , so why create a new one ? I say why not ? The main reason is Google is more accessible to the global community and you can rest assured that it 's not going to go away . I have seen great fan sites suddenly disappear without notice and for no reason . Usually this happens because the developer of the site can no longer afford the cost of bandwidth being used . That said , the maintenance of this forum is handled by Google and thus will remain reliable and it will ultimately give us more time to play :) . I 'm nothing more than a devoted fan of the game myself and I hope that this area can become a haven for deep fan discussions . Regards , Humanpixel Aye ! Good Day Mate ! I m really looking forward to Guild Wars . Anyone know a release date ? Feb 2005 Feb 2005 is the projected release date , although Guild Wars is made by ex-members of Blizzard , so Feb 2005 could mean August 2006 ... Anyway , I tried to get a preorder but no places were selling it so I missed out on 2/3 weekend events . Oh well , I 'll get it when it comes out in Febuary . rumor has feb 05 on the calender . BUT they stated that they will take as long as it takes to work out all the bugs so who really know how long . as far as pre order go to and they have a list of major retailers that carry it there are also a few websites that you could order it off of . and a good reason for starting this group .... company firewalls lol ;) I was kind of curious , what exactly is Guild Wars ? I hav n't heard of it . Check out the Guild Wars Web site at for more info about the game . It 's a massive multiplayer role playing game . The graphics are without a doubt the amoung the best graphics I have ever seen for any game and I have been gaming since the MUD days . It 's worth a look . I have a preorder and am even considering getting a second preorder to have multiple accounts . I have participated in all the weekend beta events and the world preview . The game is already 100 % functional . I ca n't imagine them not being able to meet the Feb 05 deadline . Warm greetings to all in this GW community . I am Lady Kingel and I hail from the United Legit Gaming Guilds of Guild Wars . We are a consortium of legit honorable guilds that was established in 1997 for DI and we are now adding GW to the list of games played . The alliance is a pretty straightforward one . It was formed to allow many different guilds who were all strictly honorable to come together as a family and allow them many people to game with . There are no other requirements other than we ask that members greet each new member and each new alliance and also feel free to post in any of the forums . We are also a group who is looking for members for our own select guild called ULGG of GW ... which is a part of the alliance with the same name . We play in all aspects of the game and we hand pick our members . I would like to personally invite each of you to visit our website . You are individuals of quality , and in our alliance we seek quality of member over quantity of member . You will be asked to register , and then you should wander over to the Announce Your Arrival Section and present yourself . You will be greeted by many members of this wonderful family . I do hope to see you visiting us at the fire and we shall prepare a feast for you , as well . If you paste this in your browser , it will take you directly to our GW website . I extend my hand to each of you in true friendship , and honor . Come and say hello ... you will be warmly welcomed ! We are currently moving to a new server , so we will be down for a while . I will inform when we are up and running again . I wish all happy holidays , and moreso , wish peace on earth . Kingel Dear Judges , Lawyers , Policemen , Guards , Counselors , Taxpayers , et. al. , We are here . Like it or not , for good or bad , we are here . Who are we ? We are the downtrodden and dispossesed , the self - torturing , the disenfranchised convicts , drug and alcohol addicts , the unemployed and unemployable . We are the children of poverty , financial and spiritual . We have and will have children of our own , grandchildren too . We are ex-cons , uninsured , homeless , of many colors and speaking many tongues . We are the enemy in what has become a domestic war against ourselves . And who are you ? You who like the tough talk of Tough on Crime ? You who watch as budgets are cut in education and health care while you militarize a police force ? Bullet - proof vests , automatic weapons , helicopters , tanks , robots ... the testosterone is oozing through the streets , more prisons , longer sentences , tighten the belt , spartan conditions , task forces , gang units , gun courts . And what is there to show for it ? Unemployent stays low because half the population oversees those " out of the workforce " , the dregs , the rabble , the enemy ? Please tell me there is a deeper reason . Do you feel safer ? More humane ? More like a cohesive society with a shared sense of purpose , who can identify Us and Them ? Do you live in a gated community or gentrified neighborhood ? By the way , have you read the Declaration of Independence and US Constitution - or do you only know the first phrases ? It 's about time we got together . Please know that I have yet to meet a convict who wants their child to be a thief , an addict , a dealer , a prostitute , or a violent individual . Most of us still have hope for ourselves even when stuck in the darkest dilemmas , ruts and catch - 22s . Most of us believe in crafting laws and instilling order . Many of us have burrowed beneath the surface to find a spiritual sense of being , an understanding force at least as powerful as those we succumbed to , and many of use would n't escape if you opened the front door . Did you know that approximately 10 million Americans are either incarcerated , on probation , on parole or once were in those categories ? Each of those 10 million have families , friends , neighbors ... and so closer and closer does the We interface with the You . Do n't you think it 's time we talked ? Are you ready ? Can you accept that the road we are travelling points toward a grim and painful future ? Do you have the heart to face monumental failures while bravely struggling beyond where we are now ? I know that some of you are , and that some of us are , and this is what gives me hope . You need our insights just as we need your structure . It is never over , especially when a real solution , a real treatment for our sickness , is yet to begin . In Solidarity , Bruce Reilly ( a.k.a Bruha ) P.O. Box 8274 Cranston , RI 02920 USA P.S. - I am trying to conceptualize an effective guerilla media campaign to promote this cause . Ideas are welcome . Collaboration is prayed . an annotated text of the bill , read the article by D. Singmaster in " The Mathematical Intelligencer " v 7 # 2 , pp 69 - 72 . --------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----- Subject : Where can I get the necessary software to get a " smart " mail system running on my machine that will take advantage of the postings in comp.mail.maps ? ( E.g. , pathalias , smail , etc. ) There are a couple of packages available through the supporters of the comp.sources.unix archives . If sites next to you do n't have what you want , contact your nearest comp.sources.unix archive , or the moderator . Information on archive sites , and indices of comp.sources.unix back issues are posted regularly in comp.sources.unix and comp.sources.d . --------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----- Subject : What is " food for the NSA line - eater " ? This refers to the alleged scanning of all Usenet traffic by the National Security Agency ( and possibly other intelligence organizations ) for interesting keywords . The " food " is believed to contain some of those Email : " Peanutjake " < peanutjak...@usa.com > Groups : misc.consumers Subject : IMMEDIATE ATTENTION NEEDED : HIGHLY CONFIDENTIAL URGENT ASSISTANCE - FROM USA FROM : GEORGE WALKER BUSH 202.456.1414 / 202.456.1111 FAX : 202.456.2461 Dear Sir / Madam , I am GEORGE WALKER BUSH , son of the former president of the United States of America George Herbert Walker Bush , and currently serving as President of the United States of America . This letter might surprise you because we have not met neither in person nor by correspondence . I came to know of you in my search for a reliable and reputable person to handle a very confidential business transaction , which involves the transfer of a huge sum of money to an account requiring maximum confidence . I am writing you in absolute confidence primarily to seek your assistance in acquiring oil funds that are presently trapped in the republic of Iraq . My partners and I solicit your assistance in completing a transaction begun by my father , who has long been actively engaged in the extraction of petroleum in the United States of America , and bravely served his country as director of the United States Central Intelligence Agency . In the decade of the nineteen - eighties , my father , then vice - president of the United States of America , sought to work with the good offices of the President of the Republic of Iraq to regain lost oil revenue sources in the neighboring Islamic republic of Iran . This unsuccessful venture was soon followed by a falling - out with his Iraqi partner , who sought to acquire additional oil revenue sources in the neighboring emirate of Kuwait , a wholly - owned U.S. - British subsidiary . My father re-secured the petroleum assets of Kuwait in 1991 at a cost of sixty - one billion U.S. dollars ( $ 61,000,000,000 ) . Out of that cost , thirty - six billion dollars ( $ 36,000,000,000 ) were supplied by King Hussein , Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and other Persian Gulf monarchies , and sixteen billion dollars ( $ 16,000,000,000 ) supplied by German and Japanese partners . But my father 's former Iraqi business partner remained in control of the republic of Iraq and its petroleum reserves . My family is calling for your urgent assistance in funding the removal of the President of the Republic of Iraq and acquiring the petroleum assets of his country , as compensation for the costs of removing him from power . Unfortunately , our partners from 1991 are not willing to shoulder the burden of this new venture , which in its upcoming phase may cost the sum of 100 billion to 200 billion dollars ( $ 100,000,000,000 - $ 200,000,000,000 ) , both in the initial acquisition and in long - term management . Without the funds from our 1991 partners , we would not be able to acquire the oil revenue trapped within Iraq . That is why my family and our colleagues are urgently seeking your gracious assistance . Our distinguished colleagues in this business transaction include the sitting vice-president of the United States of America , Richard Cheney , who is an original partner in the Iraq venture and former head of the Halliburton oil company , and Condoleeza Rice , whose professional dedication to the venture was demonstrated in the naming of a Chevron oil tanker after her . I would beseech you to transfer a sum equaling ten to twenty - five percent ( 10 - 25 % ) of your yearly income to our account to aid in this important venture . The Internal Revenue Service of the United States of America will function as our trusted intermediary . I propose that you make this transfer before the fifteenth ( 15th ) of the month of April . I know that a transaction of this magnitude would make anyone apprehensive and worried . But I am assuring you that all will be well at the end of the day . A bold step taken shall not be regretted , I assure you . Please do be informed that this business transaction is 100 % legal . If you do not wish to co-operate in this transaction , please contact our intermediary representatives to further discuss the matter . I pray that you understand our plight . My family and our colleagues will be forever grateful . Please reply in strict confidence to the contact numbers below . Sincerely with warm regards , George Walker Bush Switchboard : 202.456.1414 Comments : 202.456.1111 Fax : 202.456.2461 e-mail : presid...@whitehouse.gov US battles to save storm victims Watch the airlift Emergency teams in the southern US are battling to reach survivors of Hurricane Katrina , the most destructive storm to hit the country in decades . Hundreds of people are feared dead in Mississippi , and the Louisiana city of New Orleans is badly flooded . The city mayor said rescuers were unable to retrieve the dead . " They 're just pushing them aside , " he said . Amid worsening conditions , officials plan to evacuate a New Orleans stadium where up to 20,000 people took shelter . The Superdome stadium is without power , and toilets are overflowing . Map of central New Orleans " It 's a very , very desperate situation , " Louisiana Governor Kathleen Blanco said . [ an error occurred while processing this directive ] One resident of New Orleans said escaping from the storm was " hell " . " We were screaming , hollering , flashing lights . It was complete chaos , " Kioka Williams told the Associated Press news agency . She had to hack her way through the ceiling of her beauty shop as flood waters rose in the city of half a million people - much of which lies below sea level . Flooding Walls keeping water out of the bowl - shaped city have been breached , and emergency teams are using helicopters to drop 1,350 kg ( 3,000 lb ) sandbags and concrete barriers into the gaps . Before the phones went , I was told [ my family in Biloxi ] had lost their roof , barn , 2 oak trees and many pines and they were letting in water Natalie McVeigh Oakley , England Your Katrina experiences Blogging Katrina New Orleans mayor Ray Nagin said up to 80 % of the city was submerged , in some cases by waters 6 m ( 20 ft ) deep . He warned water levels could still rise . " Some sections of the city which are dry now could see nine or 10 feet ( some 3 m ) of water , " he said . The US Army Corps of Engineers says it could take a month to clear the flood waters , and the government 's disaster relief agency has urged evacuees not to try to get back to their homes . The BBC 's Alastair Leithead in New Orleans says there is panic as vital supplies run out . Heavily armed police have been trying to impose a form of martial law to stem outbreaks of looting . While some looters are stealing non-essential goods , others are simply trying to find food and water . ' Hundreds dead ' The situation appears to be even worse in Mississippi . " You 're going to be looking at hundreds dead along the coast , " a state official said . [ an error occurred while processing this directive ] Casinos housed in barges have been hurled onto the beach and beyond . Tens of thousands are homeless , and officials say it could be weeks before power is restored . " I can only imagine that this is what Hiroshima looked like 60 years ago , " said Mississippi Governor Haley Barbour after viewing the destruction from the air . Survivors are being found all the time , including two children who lost their parents . Harrison County in Mississippi bore the brunt of Hurricane Katrina as it slammed into Biloxi and Gulfport before heading inland . Mississippi media earlier reported 54 people killed in the state . In Biloxi , 30 people were reported dead in one block of flats which was hit by a 9 m ( 30 ft ) " storm surge " . The town 's death toll may be " in the hundreds " , municipal spokesman Vincent Creel said . Mobilising Louisiana 's Governor Blanco urged residents to spend Wednesday in prayer and assured them the crisis would eventually be overcome . Follow Katrina 's path The US Red Cross has mobilised thousands of volunteers for its biggest - ever natural disaster effort and federal emergency teams are being dispatched to affected areas . President George W Bush , who has cut his holiday two days short , has called on Americans to donate to the Red Cross or other organisations . Damage estimates of more than $ 25 bn suggest it could be the US insurance industry 's most expensive natural disaster ever . The price of crude oil on the international market hit a record $ 70.85 a barrel due to the vulnerability of oil and gas fields in the Gulf of Mexico . The US energy secretary has announced that oil will be released from government petroleum reserves . Return to the top MOON LANDING HOAX : CHURCH = TECHNOLOGY & GOVERNMENT - Shuttle Carried on Aircraft model Q : NASA IS A WASTE ! ( Answered , 2 Comments ) Question Subject : NASA IS A WASTE ! Category : Science > Astronomy Asked by : yheggy - ga List Price : $ 2.00 Posted : 25 Oct 2004 18:32 PDT Expires : 24 Nov 2004 17:32 PST Question ID : 420072 How much money does the USA give NASA per year ? Answer Subject : Re : NASA IS A WASTE ! Answered By : googlenut - ga on 25 Oct 2004 19:14 PDT Hello yheggy - ga , On September 21 , 2004 , the U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee approved $ 16.379 billion in funding for NASA for fiscal year 2005 . This is a $ 200 million increase over what NASA received for fiscal year 2004 . U.S. Senate Committee on Appropriations Press Release September 21 , 2004 " National Aeronautics and Space Administration ( NASA ) : is funded at $ 16.379 billion , an increase of $ 200 million over the FY04 enacted level , and a reduction of $ 665 million from the budget request . An additional $ 800 million in emergency funding was added for NASA during the Committee 's consideration of the bill . -- The return to flight activities for the Shuttle program are funded at $ 4.319 billion , the requested level from the Administration . -- The International Space Station is funded at $ 1.6 billion . The bill reduces ISS operations by $ 120 million due to the continued reduced capability of the ISS for at least half of FY05 . -- The Moon / Mars vision : --- The Crew Exploration Vehicle ( CEV ) is funded at $ 268 million . --- A lunar exploration mission is funded at $ 20 million . --- $ 10 million is provided for Centennial Challenges . Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation ( NRC ) : is funded at $ 115 million , the same as FY04 and the budget request . " Spacetoday.net Senate increases NASA funding " The Senate Appropriations Committee used a somewhat controversial technique Tuesday to increase NASA 's fiscal year 2005 budget by $ 200 million over what President Bush requested . The committee voted to give NASA $ 16.4 billion in 2005 , about $ 200 million more than what the President requested and over $ 1 billion more than what House appropriators approved in July . " I hope you have found this information helpful . If you have any questions , please request clarification prior to rating the answer . Googlenut Google Search Terms : nasa funding Comments Log in to add a comment Subject : Re : NASA IS A WASTE ! From : saem_aero - ga on 26 Oct 2004 18:11 PDT Excellent answer googlenut . Let me add some additional info . You can get details about NASA spending here , from their own webpage . Also , from their own webpage , reasons why NASA is important , in a 5th grade format . I guess if you are someone not familiar with how NASA benefits our society I can see how one might form the opinion of yheggy - ga . Let me put it this way - If you have watched TV recently , crossed a modern bridge , flown in an airplane , recieved any form of modern medicine , did any mathematics , drove a car , used a cellular phone , etc. then you have somehow directly reaped the rewards which NASA has returned to us . Also NASA has a large outreach program for education , some people believe this is important . Best , Steve . Subject : Re : NASA IS A WASTE ! From : jaqamofino - ga on 26 Apr 2005 06:02 PDT i believe that NASA is a HUGE waste of tax payers ' money , but there are so many huge wastes of tax payer monies , that i find it best not to think about it . i also think the National Endowment for the Arts is a waste , but i guess i would rather see my money go to the NEA than NASA . of course , in a perfect world , tax payers ' money would go toward some sort of national healthcare program , and housing for the homeless , but this is far from a perfect world . in response to Steve 's comment : do you really believe that spending trillions on space exploration over the years was the ONLY way to invent the cellfone ? and bridges ??? i find that extremely hard to believe . i think it could have been done in a much more cost efficient way , right here on bad - old - planet - earth . just my two cents . thanks for listening . Please take a moment to read this . I realize that it may sound strange , but we are desparate in our efforts and are willing to try anything to help our dear sick friend . This costs absolutely nothing , and will take about one minute of your time . This is not a hoax , as so many of these emails actully are . In quick summary , Beyond Control , a local band in our area , is sponoring a benefit for a cancer victim whose benefits have run out . That band is involved in a local competition which promises a $ 5000 first prize , which they would like to win in order to donate it to the benefit fund which they have started . Below are some emails to friends explaining a little more about this effort . What we are trying to do is solicit votes for the band , in order to put them in first place . They are currently in third place , and need your help so that the prize money can be used for a humanatarian cause . You can vote at the following link , it will only take a few seconds . Please take a moment to click on the link below and cast your vote for Beyond Control . Thank you in advance for your contribution to this effort . Also , please pass this along to everyone you know , and all of your email contacts . We need the power of the internet to pull this off . The web site is You can check the validity of all of this at the Beyond Control website . That address is . The home page for Rockin on the River is , and it lists all the acts scheduled for the season . You can check that out as well , to confirm that this is all real , and for a worthy cause . Abby is our beloved friend , and we are trying to raise money for her any way we can , so this prize money is important to help her continue to receive her life - saving treatments . Many thanks , and may God bless you all and keep you healthy . Here are some emails we have sent , along with the flyer for the Benefit fund raiser we are holding in June , just for your information . Roy , I am sending you some info that I have passed along regarding the effort to win the cash for the fund raising benefit . If you can pass this info along , and ask everyone you know to forward it to their contacts , etc , we may have a shot at pulling this off . Thanks , Fred John , I will attach the letter explaining the benefit we are sponsoring . There is a link to the contest page . Any help in distributing this will be greatly appreciated . It is certainly for a good cause . Abby needs to fly to New York twice a month for these treatments , and her time on the Federal Grant program has expired . She does n't have the funds to continue without the grant , and without these treatments , her prognosis is grim . I hope you have a huge network . Also encourage your recipients to forward this along to their contacts , and so on , so that the movement to help her grows exponentially . We must finish in first place in order to contribute the $ 5000 to the benefit fund . Thank you so much for caring enough to offer your help . Fred BENEFIT AUCTION & RAFFLE FOR ABBY FREEMAN WHEN : JUNE 12 , 2005 , 2:00 P.M. TO 2:00 A.M. WHERE : MAIN STREET SALOON ADMISSION : DONATIONS AT THE DOOR Abby Freeman is our good friend who has non-Hodgkin lymphoma , and she needs your help ! Her grant for the life saving treatments she needs has run out , and we need to help her to continue to receive these treatments . Abby has three wonderful young children , and friends who love her and need her . Please help us to help her win this fight . With your help , we know she can do it !! We 'll have four bands , and Big D is cookin' ..... lots of fun and great prizes . This is an event you do n't want to miss !! Bands , food , and prizes are sponsored by Beyond Control , who will be competing in the Band of the Year Contest at the River Front Festival in Cuyahoga Falls on July 1 . The winner of this competition will receive $ 5000 , which Beyond Control hopes to win in order to donate it to the Abby Freeman fund . Please help us by logging onto the Rockin on the River website at . Cast a vote for Beyond Control , and help us provide Abby with her life saving treatments again . Donations can also be made through Charter One Bank . Make checks payable to Kendel Bunnell c / o Benefit for Abby Freeman By Richard Spencer ( Filed : 19/11/2004 ) China 's insatiable demand for energy is prompting fears of financial and diplomatic collisions around the globe as it seeks reliable supplies of oil from as far away as Brazil and Sudan . An intrusion into Japanese territorial waters by a Chinese nuclear submarine last week and a trade deal with Brazil are the latest apparently unconnected consequences of China 's soaring economic growth . Increased car usage in China is creating a high demand for petrol The connection , however , lies in an order issued last year by President Hu Jintao to seek secure oil supplies abroad - preferably ones which could not be stopped by America in case of conflict over Taiwan . The submarine incident was put down to a " technical error " by the Chinese government , which apologised to Japan . But even before the incident the People 's Daily , the government mouthpiece , had commented that competition over the East China Sea between the two countries was " only a prelude of the game between China and Japan in the arena of international energy " . The Brazil trade deal included funding for a joint oil - drilling and pipeline programme at a cost that experts said would add up to three times the cost of simply buying oil on the market . The West , however , has paid little attention to these developments . For the United States and Europe are far more concerned with the even more sensitive issues of China 's relations with " pariah states " . In September , China threatened to veto any move to impose sanctions on Sudan over the atrocities in Darfur . It has invested $ 3 billion in the African country 's oil industry , which supplies it with seven per cent of its needs . Then , this month , it said that it opposed moves to refer Iran 's nuclear stand - off with the International Atomic Energy Agency to the United Nations Security Council . A week before , China 's second biggest state oil firm had signed a $ 70 billion deal for oilfield and natural gas development with Iran , which already supplies 13 per cent of China 's needs . China has its own reserves of oil and natural gas and once was a net oil exporter . But as its economy has expanded by an average of nine per cent per year for the last two decades , so has its demand for energy . This year it overtook Japan as the world 's second largest consumer of energy , behind the US . Its projected demand , boosted by a huge rise in car ownership as well as the need to find alternatives to polluting coal for electricity generation , has contributed to the surge in the price of oil this year . Shortages are already leading to power cuts in the big cities . Since President Hu ordered state - owned oil firms to " go abroad " to ensure supply , they have begun drilling for gas in the East China Sea , just west of the line that Japan regards as its border . Japan protested , to no avail , that the project should be a joint one . The two are also set to clash over Russia 's oil wealth . China is furious that Japan has outbid it in their battle to determine the route of the pipeline that Russia intends to build to the Far East . Japan favoured a route to the sea , enabling oil to be shipped to both Japan and China . China wanted an overland route through its own territory , which would give it ultimate control if hostilities broke out . Increasingly , analysts are saying that China 's efforts have gone beyond what is safe or even in its own interests . Claude Mandil , the executive director of the International Energy Agency in Paris , said the reserves in the East China Sea were hardly worth the trouble . " Nobody thinks that there will be a lot of oil and gas in this part of the world , " he said . " It may be a difficult political issue but I do n't think the energy content is worthwhile . " Eurasia Group , a New York - based firm of political analysts , said its oil experts worked out that China was paying such an inflated price for its investment in Brazil that the cost for the oil it ended up with was three times the market price . " If China 's economy falters , which , in my view , appears increasingly likely , then commodity prices will plummet , and with them , the value of the assets that produce them , " Jason Kindopp , Eurasia 's lead China analyst , said . " Beijing may end up in a early 1990s Japan situation , where it is forced to sell recently purchased overseas assets for a fraction of what it paid for them . " China 's wider aggression to secure oil and gas was the greatest threat to its international standing in the next decade . " Sudan is the primary example , " he said . " It marks the first time in recent years that China has promised to wield its veto power in the UN Security Council against a petition initiated by the United States and backed by France and Great Britain . " Email : dharmad...@gmail.com Visualizations as a helpful beginning technique ----------------------------------------------- If you consider that you still need the assistance of other visualizations to help the mind feel the spirit of transcendence , try the following before moving onto the more formal method below . Visualisations can be as useful tools , but meditation is more than that . Meditation has to do with what is called ideation . It is always good to stick to a formal intense meditation practice like the one for beginners described in the MP3 file that follows after the visualisations . Find a comfortable place on the floor and sit with your legs crossed . Place your hands one on top of the other in your lap , keep your back straight , keep eyes closed and keep tongue on the roof of your mouth . Your breathing should be calm and relaxed , through the nose . Spend a minute or so concentrating on your breath , feeling the air flowing through your nostrils . 1 . Warm Sun Visualization Continue to breathe slowly and deeply . With each breath , feel the muscles in your body becoming lighter and lighter , and also your external motor and sensory organs are feeling like they are withdrawing from the world into a special inner quietness . Imagine the tension melting away as you continue breathing rhythmically and naturally . Picture yourself sitting on a warm , tropical beach basking in the glow of the sun ... . Visualize the vivid , beautiful colours of the earth ( its flowers and plants ) , the sea next to you , and the sky above you . Feel yourself floating above the earth and sea . As you sit above the world , the warmth of the golden sun penetrates your body and makes you feel warmer and warmer . It surrounds you . The golden rays feel soft and soothing . Now you are far above the earth - into space . Everything around you is so vast . Yet , there is warmth and a familiarity with the vastness . You want to merge your mind with the greater universal Mind that surrounds you . Continue to ideate on this intense desire for your mind to merge with the that universal Consciousness . And while doing so continue using the Baba Nam Kevalam mantra ( breathe in with Baba Nam , breathe out with Kevalam ) . Try this for 5 to 10 minutes . Now come back to earth again - slowly . Imagine yourself sitting on the beach serenely and restfully . Your muscles are loose and limp . Feel your body sinking slightly into the sand making that earthly connection again . The sun 's rays and warmth are still with you , surrounding you . You are in a state of peace and relaxation . With each breath , watch your body and ensure that it remains relaxed - at peace . Continue to feel the warmth of the sunlight all over your body , warming you deeply and gently . You want to bring something back with you from your deep space experience where you sensed your mind merging with the universal Mind . This will be the warmth of the sun - a close reminder and link between earth and the infinite space . Visualize the inside of your body bathed in the golden light , absorbing every ray and glowing as radiantly as the sun . A warm , gentle breeze swirls around your body and relaxes you even more . Let your mind and body be totally at peace . Now feel yourself returning to where you sit ... move your hands and feet a little , stretch them . Open your eyes . 2 . Mountain Visualization Another thing you can try . Imagine you 're sitting on top of a mountain , and that it 's the most peaceful place you can think of . Feel that you 're sitting there in complete peace , right on top of the world . Now imagine that infinite happiness is surrounding you in every direction . Feel you 're completely surrounded by that infinite peace and happiness . Now start to repeat within your mind the mantra : BABA NAM KEVALAM . Its meaning is " Infinite happiness is everywhere " . Feel the meaning , do n't just think of its wordy meaning or try to translate from Sanskrit ( BABA NAM KEVALAM ) to an English meaning ( Infinite peace and happiness ) . Think internally , intuitively , not by words , of the meaning , as you 're repeating it . This is called ideation . It is important to take the idea , not just the intellectual analysis . Touching deep into the idea is what builds intuition - it is a synthetic process . Whereas , trying to translate and grapple with wordy meanings is an intellectual mechanism - an analytical process . Feel you 're surrounded by infinite peace and happiness , and feel that your own sense of existence is in direct contact with that endless peace and happiness all around you . You can go further and feel that your unit consciousness , a dot in the Infinite Consciousness , is merging with Infinity . Continue for as long as you like , then open your eyes . OK that is fairly basic :) . The important point is to develop some psycho-spiritual connection between your mind and the universal Consciousness or Supreme Consciousness . Do n't worry if you have trouble concentrating on the mantra and ideation - that 's normal . It takes some time and practice to be able to focus on the one thought . The main thing is to keep practicing . If you do n't practice , then nothing happens . Well maybe a miracle could happen , but let s face it we 're ordinary people and so require practical day to day techniques ! --- NORTH CAROLINA RELIGIOUS COALITION FOR MARRIAGE EQUALITY From what we hear from the news media , one could easily conclude that all Christians are opposed to gay marriage . But that ’s not the case . Last year an organization named the North Carolina Religious Coalition for Marriage Equality was formed to get out the message that at least some people of faith are not opposed to extending the rights and responsibilities of civil marriage to same - gender couples . One of “ NCRC4ME ’s ” major efforts is to collect signatures for the attached “ Declaration of Religious Leaders , ” which has been and will again be presented to members of the NC legislature . It presents the case for marriage equality and states , “ We are resolved that the State should not interfere with same - gender couples who choose to marry and share fully and equally in the rights , responsibilities , and commitments of civil marriage . ” A measure to amend the NC Constitution to ban gay marriage was defeated last year but already has been reintroduced in the 2005 legislative session , so there is a real need for visible support for the “ pro-same - gender - marriage ” side of this issue . At its February meeting the CHS Vestry voted unanimously to add their names to the Declaration . Our Rector Barbara and our Deacon Clare also have signed the Declaration . Furthermore , the Vestry voted unanimously to invite the support of members of the CHS congregation for the Declaration . ( Since the Declaration is written as coming from “ religious leaders , ” people who do n’t consider themselves “ religious leaders ” can sign as “ Supporters of the North Carolina Religious Coalition for Marriage Equality . ” ) Please note that the Declaration addresses only civil marriage ; it says nothing about religious beliefs or practices regarding marriage . If you have any questions please feel free to call me ( after Sat. the 26th , when I will return from a trip ) . Sign - up lists will be available at the services on Feb. 27 and March 6 , or you can email me . I will email names and email addresses ( or postal addresses ) of signers to NCRC4ME in time for their “ lobby day ” in Raleigh on March 15 . Thank you for your consideration of this issue . For the Church of the Holy Spirit Vestry , Dudley Cate 828-296-8466 jodud...@aol.com --------------------------- North Carolina Religious Coalition for Marriage Equality Declaration of Religious Leaders April 19 , 2004 The most fundamental human right , after the necessities of food , clothing and shelter , is the right to affection and the supportive love of other human beings . We become most fully human when we love another person . We can grow in our capacity to be human - to be loving - in a family unit . This right to love and form a family is so fundamental that our United States Constitution takes it for granted in its dedication to " secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity . ” The North Carolina Constitution likewise affirms the “ inalienable rights ” of human beings to " life , liberty , the enjoyment of the fruits of their own labor , and the pursuit of happiness . " Throughout history , tyrants have known that by denying the right of oppressed peoples to form and nurture families , they can kill the spirit of those peoples . > From the shameful history of slavery in America , the injustice of forbidding people to marry is evident as a denial of a basic human right . The American laws forbidding interracial marriage , now struck down , were clearly discriminatory . Denial of the status of marriage to those who would freely accept its responsibilities creates legal and economic inequities and social injustice . We feel called to protest and oppose this injustice . As religious people , clergy and lay leaders , we are mandated by faith to stand for justice in our common civic life . We oppose the use of sacred texts and religious traditions to deny legal equity to same - gender couples . As concerned citizens we affirm the liberty of adults of the same gender to love and marry . We insist that no one , especially the state , is allowed to coerce people into marriage or bar two consenting adults , whether of the same or differing genders , from forming the family unit that lets them be more fully loving , thus more fully human . We respect the fact that debate and discussion continue in many of our religious communities as to the scriptural , theological and liturgical issues involved . However , we draw on our many faith traditions to arrive at a common conviction . We are resolved that the State should not interfere with same - gender couples who choose to marry and share fully and equally in the rights , responsibilities , and commitments of civil marriage . We affirm freedom of conscience in this matter . We recognize that the state may not require religious groups to officiate at , or bless , same - gender marriages . Likewise , a denial of state civil recognition dishonors the religious convictions of those communities and clergy who officiate at , and bless , same - gender marriages . The state may not favor the convictions of one religious group over another by denying individuals their fundamental right to marry and to have those marriages recognized by civil law . As faith leaders , we commit ourselves to public action , visibility , education , and mutual support in the service of the right and freedom to marry . -- Tom Dempsey Gulf Breeze , FL 850-748-0740 Email : Bill McGinnis < bmc...@patriot.net > The One Reason Why All Americans Should Oppose The Nomination Of Samuel Alito He Would Tear Down Our System Of Checks And Balances , Giving Far Too Much Power To The President My Fellow Americans : As many of you may have heard , President Bush has nominated a long - time Federal Judge named Samuel Alito to become the next member of the United States Supreme Court , to fill a vacancy created by the retirement of another member of the Court . Under our Constitution , this nomination can not take effect unless and until the United States Senate gives its Consent , as described in our Constitution , Article II , Section 2 . A copy of the Constitution , with links back to the official source , is located at http://loveallpeople.org/usconstitutiona.txt Judge Samuel Alito is very highly qualified by all of the normal standards used to evaluate candidates for this position : He has a very high intellect . He graduated very high in his class , from Princeton undergraduate and from Law School at Yale . He has a long and distinguished record , including many years as a Federal Appeals Judge , the next level below Supreme Court . He has encyclopedic knowledge of hundreds of different Supreme Court cases , and he can recite details from memory . He demonstrates an excellent " Judicial Temperament , " being courteous , mild - mannered , respectful of all people ; careful in his work , meticulous in detail . His co-workers love him . His fellow judges love him . His family loves him . President Bush loves him . Yes , it is true that some people do n't like the way they think he will vote on the Supreme Court . But other people do like the way they think he will vote , and the ones who favor him seem to outnumber the ones who oppose him . So now the Senate is getting ready to vote soon , on whether to approve him or not ; and at this moment ( evening of Jan. 27 , 2006 ) it looks like he has more than the fifty - one votes needed for approval . The President is very eager to go ahead quickly and get this vote , because he very much wants to have Samuel Alito on the Supreme Court , to be judging the cases Bush is interested in . So there is a lot of hurry - up pressure on the Senate to give its prompt vote of approval . There is an old saying that applies in this situation : " Act in haste , repent at leisure . " Sometimes you can make a bad decision very quickly , then regret it for many years to come . That is what is about to happen with Judge Samuel Alito , in my opinion , because he has one tragic flaw - a very serious blind spot in his thinking - which makes him completely unacceptable for the position of Supreme Court Justice : He does not really agree with the system of " Checks and Balances " built into the Constitution , and he is ready to start tearing it down in order to follow the " Unitary Executive Theory , " which calls for vastly - increased Presidential Power at the expense of Congress and the Supreme Court . And because of this tragic flaw . . . " He Would Tear Down Our System Of Checks And Balances , Giving Far Too Much Power To The President . " In our Constitutional system , we have three branches of the Federal Government : the Legislative , Executive , and Judicial branches . And the basic idea behind the Checks and Balances we have is that if one branch of the Government goes crazy , the other two can hold it down . But Samuel Alito believes in a little - known Constitutional theory - called the " Unitary Executive Theory " - which says that the President should have complete control over the Executive Branch , and that the Executive Branch should be in charge of almost everything that the Government actually does , including the functions of the Independent Agencies which were designed to be free of Presidential control , and the Military , which exists , which is regulated , and which is funded by specific authority given by the Constitution to Congress , not to the President . The Military is not part of the Executive Branch : it is a separate entity . " Commander In Chief " does n't mean that he is the boss of the Military , merely mean that he is the Administrator , just as he is the Administrator of the Executive Branch , charged with " executing faithfully " all the laws passed by Congress and all the Decisions rendered by the Supreme Court . Under the Unitary Executive Theory , the Laws of Congress and Decisions of the Supreme Court have no actual authority unless the President agrees with them . And so Congress and the Supreme Court become mere advisors to the President , with no real authority over him . And the President becomes a Dictator , unrestrained by anything in the Constitution , backed up by the Armed Forces , which would be entirely under his personal control . And thus the United States of America - The Land Of The Free And The Home Of The Brave - becomes just another Military Dictatorship , no better than Nazi Germany or Fascist Italy during World War II . AND THAT IS WHY ALL AMERICANS SHOULD OPPOSE THE NOMINATION OF SAMUEL ALITO . For details and further proof , please see these websites : Testimony at http://judiciary.senate.gov/testimony.cfm?id=1725&wit_id=4905 Descriptions and Links at http://www.UnitaryExecutive.net Blessings to you . May God help us all . And may God bless America ! Rev. Bill McGinnis , Director http://www.LoveAllPeople.org and http://www.InternetchurchOfChrist.org Copies of this message are located below . If you want to help , please send them to everyone you know who needs to read them . http://www.loveallpeople.org/theonereasonwhy.html and http://www.loveallpeople.org/theonereasonwhy.txt ### CONTACT William McGinnis ( Rev. Bill McGinnis ) 1908 Mt Vernon Ave # 2543 Alexandria , VA 22301 7037686710 bmc...@patriot.net Reply NASA & Company Diplomacy - Trying to keep Moon Landing Hoax a secret in modern times Some strategies being used by NASA & Company in relation to China and other space planning countries are mentioned here after being gleaned from a news item underneath . Country has an Independent strategy = NASA & company to use " Numero Uno " strategy , try to assert , beat , mesh and control the space program of the country . This can also be through political , economical , social , and technological influence . Country not open or not have fixed strategy = NASA & Company to use " freeze thawed " strategy especially when the country has a challenging , growing and ambitious space program . This can also be through political , economical , social , and technological influence . Dependant = NASA & Company to use " space station " model to unify the aims of different countries . This is really an end goal aim of NASA & Company and also does not allow anyone challenging the moon landing hoax . The target for NASA & Company probably to get by 2018 all the ambitious space program countries shifting towards this model , through the propaganda of another moon mission ; deliberately failing this or trying hard for another moon landing hoax ; achieving the real aim of space unity between space programs of other countries . China launches its second manned spaceflight mission Secretive efforts keep outsiders in the dark about the program 's goals By MARK CARREAU Copyright 2005 Houston Chronicle Reuters China launched Shenzhou VI , its second manned spacecraft , early today in northwest China 's Gansu Province . A pair of military pilots embarked on China 's second manned space flight early today , hurtling into orbit on a test mission that could span five days . The crew of the Shenzhou VI spacecraft was identified as Fei Junlong , 40 , and Nie Haishen , 41 , by China 's official news agency . The successful launch from the Jiuquan Satellite Launch Center in northwest China follows the solo flight of Yang Liwei in October 2003 . His one - day mission vaulted his communist homeland into the elite circle of spacefaring nations - Russia and the United States - that can launch and sustain humans in space . Most experts believe China intends to develop a small space station of its own over the next several years . But they remain uncertain about whether China aims to beat the United States to the moon in its secretive space effort . President Bush has directed NASA to return to the moon by 2018 with a new generation of human explorers . China 's " is not a fly - by - night program , " said Joan Johnson - Freese , an expert on national security who follows space developments in the Asian nation at the Naval War College in Newport , R.I . " They are not in any hurry . They want a program that will be a success , " Johnson - Freese said . " They are not going to rush it , because they do n't want it to be a budget buster . Economics will be a big determiner in the speed of their program . " China 's overtures to join the U.S. - led effort to develop the 16 - nation international space station have been thwarted for more than a decade over a range of issues , including the Asian country 's human rights policies and worries it could acquire technologies that could pose a security threat . The freeze thawed some after Yang 's 2003 mission . China was among 30 nations invited to send a delegate to NASA - sponsored roundtable discussions on Bush 's strategy to reach the moon with astronauts as the first step in the exploration of Mars and other - deep space destinations . " We applaud China 's space achievements , " NASA spokesman Allard Beutel said Tuesday . " We wish them a successful return of their astronauts . " He stressed , however , that NASA would not follow this week 's Chinese mission through formal channels . At present , there are no plans for additional meetings with foreign powers to discuss the Bush exploration initiative or to extend an invitation to China to join the space station partnership , Beutel said . The flight of Fei and Nie could mark the end of the opening chapter in a three - phase Chinese space initiative , Johnson - Freese said . The first phase , she said , will demonstrate the capability of a multi-compartment spacecraft that will leave a test module in orbit when the two fliers return to Earth . The Chinese program 's second phase will include spacewalks on future missions and demonstrations of docking and undocking techniques . The final phase will feature the assembly and operation of a longer - duration space lab . At least one expert believes China 's intentions might include a surprise attempt to circle the moon with astronauts before NASA 's planned lunar return . " The Americans would be wise to plan accordingly , " said John E. Pike , director of the Alexandria , Va. - based GlobalSecurity.org , a small national security think tank . " There is always the possibility they could jam us up , make us look like we are not numero uno , " Pike said . During the U.S. and Russian lunar race during the Cold War , NASA scored an early coup by circling the moon with the Apollo 8 crew over the 1968 Christmas holidays . As it turned out , the Soviets never made it to the moon . " ( China ) could be the second country to do that , " Pike said . " They would get in line in front of the Russians . And they would not have to land on the moon to take us down a notch . " Pike 's concern is based on China 's development of a new medium - lift rocket , the Long March V , and the construction of a new space launch complex on Hainan Island in the South China Sea . The two developments , he said , could eventually enable China 's space program to mature to the point that experts could assemble and launch from Earth 's orbit a spacecraft capable of circling the moon with astronauts and returning home . mark.carr...@chron.com Email : " righter " < righ...@sonic.net > Groups : alt.animals.rights.promotion , alt.animals , alt.animals.cat , alt.animals.ethics.vegetarian , alt.animals.lion , alt.animals.tiger , alt.animals.felines.diseases , alt.animals.dog , alt.animals.horses.breeding , alt.animals.felines.snowleopards I 'm a member of a local animal rights news , and get regular emails from other members and the staff . Recently , I read an email that reported the horrific nightmare Civet Cats go through by sick losers who put them in sheds and heat the inside of the sheds up to 110 degrees with fires , so that they can periodically scrape the sweat off of their genitals and sell it to corrupt corporations who use it to prolong the scent of perfumes . The animals eventually die , which is because these demons are so GREEDY , they want as much of their " product " as they can get , instead of letting the cats go after a point , as an act of humanity , mercy , love . Below I pasted the email text , and it has a link to a website that automatically plays this song the author of the email created . It has cat 's " Meowing " for the vocals , and you might really find yourself in those furnaces , feeling and thinking those terrible feelings and thoughts that these cats do before they die . Right now , while we 're sitting at our computers enjoying the internet , those innocent , beautiful , loving cats , are dying , somewhere in this troubled world a slow , agonizing death . The main reason I wrote this post is to ask anyone reading this if they know of some way I can help put a stop to this Cat Holocaust . I am serious about doing something . If I love cats so much , why are n't I DOING something ??? I do n't want to appear before God on judgment day and have to explain why I did n't do anything like this in my life . Any suggestions would be appreciated . Here 's the text of the email : Hi there , I read the Civet Cat story from a little while ago , and tonight , when my Mom emailed me about it , I re-read it , and went to the website with the song the author of the email created . Well , sure enough , when I heard the cats " Meowing , " I imagined the hellish moments these poor beautiful creatures of God were living , what went on in their tiny , sweet little minds , and decided that I want to do something about this torture . So , if anyone can give me some advice , I 'd sure appreciate it ! I think for starters , myself and those of you who believe in God could say a special prayer for them . I will . I 've pasted the email for those who have n't seen or would like to re-read it . It 's also got the website where the song has been uploaded . I was thinking , that while I 'm sitting here , relaxing and enjoying myself , those poor innocent animals are being cooked to death with heat in those Holocaust-esque death chambers . And what am I DOING about it ? From : Travis Job < t...@sonic.net > Date : Thu , 11 Mar 2004 02:39:27 - 0800 To : SPAR < s...@sonic.net > Subject : Civet Cats , James Rachels + a song This is my first time posting to the list , so I feel somewhat embarrassed by " promoting " a song I wrote , but I think it is fitting because it is directly tied to extreme animal suffering as a result of human lack of empathy , but an abundance of human greed . I 'm not sure if any of you know much about civet cats , but to brief those who might not know , I will quote James Rachels , author of World Hunger and Moral Obligation among many other animal rights - related books and articles . ( I kind of see him to be for animal rights theory as Peter Singer is to the theory of utilitarianism applied to non-human animals ) . The quote is from an article entitled " Vegetarianism and ` The Other Weight Problem ' " If anyone wants the complete article , email me , as it is a very good article which no meat - eater can read and not sense their own hypocrisy . But this is what he says about civet cats : " As an example , consider the treatment of the civet cat , a highly intelligent and sociable animal . Civet cats are trapped and placed in small cages inside darkened sheds , where the temperature is kept up to 110 F by fires . They are confined in this way until they finally die . What justifies this extraordinary mistreatment ? These animals have the misfortune to produce a substance that is useful in the manufacture of perfume . Musk , which is scraped from their genitals once a day for as long as they can surv ive , makes the scent of perfume last a bit longer after each application . ( The heat increases their " production " of musk . ) Here Kant 's rule -- " Animals are merely means to an end ; that end is man " -- is applied with a vengeance . To promote one of the most trivial interests we have , thousands of animals are tormented for their whole lives . " This article , and specifically this piece , effected me enough to try to build a song around the topic . If anyone is interested in listening to this song , and in offering their opinion , whether it be positive or negative , I 'd appreciate it . But I also hope no one feels any obligation to download , especially if you have an internet connection as slow mine ( 28 k ) . The url for the song is http://www.sonic.net/~fsjob/TragiCore-TheCivetCat.mp3 Although there are no human vocals / lyrics , I think it's subject matter is audible . Again , if anyone wants to read Rachels ' entire article , let me know . It 's also on the net . I was already a vegetarian when I read it a little more than a year ago , but it was one of the bigger factors for me in going completely vegan . I hope all are well . Farewell for now ... Travis Job icq uin : 5249025 " Note to Wigner : Do you think your friend could feed my cat ? Heisenberg was n't sure . Thanks , -- Shrodinger " ------------------- .: GO VEGAN :. MAKE THOUSANDS !!! -- THIS IS NOT A SCAM !!! I found this on a bulletin board and decided to try it : I do n't care about the useless pre-fabricated crap this message usually says . All I say is , it works . Continue pre-fab crap . WELL GUESS WHAT !!! Within seven days , I started getting money in the mail !! I was shocked !! I figured it would end soon , but the money just kept coming in . In my first week , I made about $ 25.00 . By the end of the second week I had made a total of more than $ 1000.00 !! In the third week I had more than $ 10,000.00 and it 's still growing !! This is now my fourth week and I have made a total of $ 42,000.00 and it 's still coming rapidly . It 's certainly worth $ 6.00 and six stamps , and I have spent more than that on the lottery without ever winning !!! Let me tell you how this works and most important , why it works .......... also make sure you print this out NOW , so you can get the information off of it , as you will need it . I promise you that if you follow the directions exactly that you will start making more money than you thought possible by doing something so easy !! Suggestion : Read this entire message carefully !! ( Print it out or download it ) Follow the simple directions and watch the money come in !! It 's easy . It 's legal . And , your investment is only $ 6.00 ( Plus postage ) !!! IMPORTANT : This is not a rip - off , it is decent ; it 's legal ; and it is virtually no risk - it really works !! If all the following instructions are adhered to , you will receive extraordinary dividends . PLEASE NOTE : Please follow the directions EXACTLY , and $ 50,000 or more can be yours in 20 to 60 days . This program remains successful because of the honesty and integrity of the participants . Please continue its success by carefully adhering to the instructions . You will now become a part of the Mail Order business . You are in the business of developing Mailing Lists . Many large corporations are happy to pay big bucks for quality lists . However , the money made from the mailing lists is secondary to income which is made from people like you and me asking to be included in that list . Here are the four easy steps to success . STEP ONE : Get six separate pieces of paper and write the following on each piece of paper " PLEASE PUT ME ON YOUR MAILING LIST . " Now get 6 U.S. $ 1.00 bills and place ONE inside of EACH of the six pieces of paper so the bill will not be seen through the envelope ( to prevent thievery ) . Next , place one paper in each of the six envelopes and seal them . You now should have six sealed envelopes , each with a piece of paper stating the above phrase , your name and address , and a $ 1.00 bill . What you are doing is creating a service . THIS IS ABSOLUTELY LEGAL !!!! ! You are requesting a legitimate service and you are paying for it !! Like most of us I was a little skeptical and little worried about the legal aspects of it all . So I checked it out with the U.S. Post Office ( 1-800-238-5355 ) and they confirmed that it is indeed legal !! Mail the six envelopes to the following addresses : 1 ) G. Burrows 1 / 264 Tor St Toowoomba QLD 4350 Australia 2 ) S Luest P.O. Box 366 Garden Grove , CA 92842 USA 3 ) G. V. & A. Bourret 41 Broome St , # 1 Brooklyn , NY 11222 USA 4 ) R. Ansems Gen. Foulkesstraat 5 4641 BW Ossendrecht Netherlands 5 ) W. Brumbley 4632 Hilton Ave Suite # 31 Columbus , Ohio 43228 STEP TWO : Now take the # 1 name off the list that you see above , move the other names up ( six becomes 5 , 5 becomes 4 , and etc. ) and add YOUR NAME as number 6 on the list . STEP THREE : Change anything you need to but try to keep this article as close to original as possible . Now post your amended article to at least 200 news groups . : ( I think there are close to 24,000 groups ) All you need is 200 , but remember , the more you post , the more money you make !! This is perfectly legal !! If you have any doubts , refer to Title 18 Sec. 1302 & 1341 of the Postal Lottery laws . Keep a copy of these steps for yourself and whenever you need money , you can use it again , and again . PLEASE REMEMBER that this program remains successful because of the honesty and integrity of the participants and by their carefully adhering to directions . Look at it this way . If you were of integrity , the program will continue and the money that so many others have received will come your way . NOTE : You may want to retain every name and address sent to you , either on a computer or hard copy and keep the notes people send you . This VERIFIES that you are truly providing a service . ( Also , it might be a good idea to wrap the $ 1 bill in dark paper to reduce the risk of mail theft ) . So , as each post is downloaded and the directions carefully followed , all members will be reimbursed for their participation as a List Developer with one dollar each . Your name will move up the list geometrically so that when your name reaches the # 1 position you will be receiving thousands of dollars in CASH !!! What an opportunity for only $ 6.00 ( $ 1.00 for each of the first six people listed above ) Send it now , add your own name to the list and you 're in business !!! ***** DIRECTIONS FOR HOW TO POST TO NEWS GROUPS !!! ***** STEP ONE : You do not need to re-type this entire letter to do your own posting . Simply put your cursor at the beginning of this letter and drag your cursor to the bottom of this document , and select ' copy ' from the edit menu . This will copy the entire letter into the computer 's memory . STEP TWO : Open a blank ' notepad ' file and place your cursor at the top of the blank page . From the ' edit ' menu select ' paste ' . This will paste a copy of the letter into the notepad so that you will add your name to the list . STEP THREE : Save your new notepad file as a text file . If you want to do your posting in different settings , you 'll always have this file to go back to . STEP FOUR : Visit message boards and post this article as a new message by highlighting the text of this letter and selecting paste from the edit menu . Fill in the subject , this will be the header that everyone sees as they scroll through the list of postings in a particular group , click the post message button . You 're done . Congratulations !!!!!! THAT 'S IT !! All you have to do , and It Really works !!! Best Wishes Blue Planet : Who 's afraid of Big Bad Wolf ? By Dan Whipple UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL Boulder , CO , Feb. 23 ( UPI ) -- Ever since he ate up Red Riding Hood 's grandma and blew down the houses of two - thirds of the Three Little Pigs , the Big Bad Wolf has held a persistently bad reputation . In part because of that reputation , the gray wolf was nearly exterminated from the lower 48 states by the 1920s , except for a small remnant population on Isle Royale National Park in Michigan 's Lake Superior . The last wolf was killed in Yellowstone National Park in 1943 . Western sheep and cattle ranchers , on whose behalf this extermination campaign was conducted , gratefully dusted their hands of the wolf and wrote him off as a job well done . Their sheep could graze , their cows could ruminate and never a discouraging word would be heard . After the major kill - offs , wolves outside of Alaska and Canada existed mostly as legend . Like UFOs or Sasquatch , several people claimed to see fleeting lone wolves , usually in Yellowstone . In the 1960s , a group shooting a movie in the Wyoming park reportedly imported some captive wolves , then released them when their shooting was done . If so , this happy band has not been heard from since . Rumor also had it some renegade biologist brought a caged pair to Yellowstone and released them into the wild sometime in the 1970s , hoping to reestablish a breeding population . If true , the caper failed . Over time , the wolf 's absence seemed to rehabilitate its image . Eventually , a trickle of support appeared for bringing the predator back to its former home range in the northern Rocky Mountains . This trickle grew into a flood , resulting in 14 wolves being reintroduced in Yellowstone in 1995 by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service -- albeit over the strong and still - continuing objections of ranchers . These wolf packs have flourished , and now there are an estimated 850 wolves roaming the northern Rockies , where merely 10 years ago there were none . One compelling argument for reintroduction was the wolf acts as a keystone predator , an animal that affects the populations , behavior and ecology of a wide variety of species within its range . Some recent research conducted by Oregon State University has given considerable credence to this idea . OSU forestry professors William Ripple and Robert Beschta have found that wolves actually promote stream - bank stabilization , although they have given the phenomenon the unfortunate name of " the ecology of fear " -- something that smacks of the horrible PR resulting from the wolf 's relationships with Riding Hood and the Three Pigs . They explained that elk in Yellowstone used to browse unmolested on young aspen and willow growing near the banks of streams , a behavior that prevented the saplings from reaching mature stages and increased the possibility of soil erosion . Since reintroduction , however , Ripple and Beschta have found , fear of the wolves apparently has discouraged the elk from spending too much time at stream banks -- where they are out in the open -- and munching on the saplings . " All you have to do is look at the photographs , " Ed Bangs , wolf recovery coordinator for the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service , told UPI 's Blue Planet , " You say , ' wow ! ' An area that used to be bald as a billiard ball is now a sea of willow . " This simple change has triggered a veritable ecological cascade in Yellowstone . More streamside willow and aspen have meant better habitat for beaver , for instance . Where there had been only one beaver colony in the park 's northern range before the wolves returned , now there are nine . " It may be uninteresting to a lot of people , " Beschta told Blue Planet . " There 's a lot of impact on plants and they say , ' Who cares ? ' But we 've been looking at streamside communities . Since wolf recovery , streamside plants , willows and cottonwoods provide food for other critters -- beavers , a whole variety of avian species , berry - producing shrubs that bears can use . It 's important with regard to the quality of streams . The plants provide shade and root strength for bank stability . Plants are critical to wildland ecosystems . " Yellowstone has a vast elk herd , one of the largest in the world . Bangs said although the number of elk has not declined very much since the wolves came back , their behavior appears markedly different . " I 'm pretty suspicious of making broad generalizations , " however , he cautioned . " Wolves are still pretty new . They 've only been there for 10 years . In 10 more years we 'll have a better idea . " Wolf reintroduction in the northern Rockies has been so successful the Fish and Wildlife Service has moved to reduce the animal 's status from endangered to threatened and , eventually , to remove it from the endangered species list altogether . Bangs said the agency has established viable wolf packs in the northern Rockies , as required by federal regulations . Some conservationists want the protection extended so wolves can move into other states , including Colorado , Utah and Oregon , among others . On Jan. 31 , Oregon Federal District Court Judge Robert E. Jones appeared to agree with them . He vacated the FWS decision to downgrade the wolf 's status . Bangs said his agency is still reviewing the decision . Regardless of the wolf 's legal status , its future expansion into new areas now seems likely . Wolves can migrate considerable distances . A Yellowstone wolf was found dead , hit by a car , on a Colorado highway last year , several hundred miles from home . Meanwhile , his reputation seems to be improving , although Bangs noted a " pretty interesting social dynamic . " There are only about 850 wolves in the West , but there are an estimated 31,000 mountain lions . Pound for pound , mountain lions eat more game and more livestock than wolves . They even occasionally attack people , which wolves do not -- despite the propaganda from the Brothers Grimm . Yet people seem willing -- even eager -- to accommodate mountain lions , despite the risks . It remains to be seen whether they will extend the same courtesy to the arriving gray wolf . Regarding those rumors about wolves living in Yellowstone prior to the official reintroduction ? They seem to be just that : rumors . True , there are about 300,000 wolves and wolf hybrids kept as pets in the United States . It also is likely people have released some of these animals into the wild hoping they would survive -- for instance , a ranger in Glacier Park caught someone in this very act not long ago . Bangs said these animals are not equipped to survive in the wild , however , and they all almost certainly have died . He said after 10 years of DNA testing on northern Rockies wolves , scientists have not found a single strain that did not belong to one of the wolves the agency released -- or their descendants . -- Blue Planet is a weekly series examining the relationship of humans to the environment , by veteran environmental reporter Dan Whipple . E-mail : sciencem...@upi.com Climate : Humans fuss , animals adjust By Dan Whipple UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL Boulder , CO , Nov. 15 ( UPI ) -- Scientists can argue all they want about how many degrees Celsius -- or Fahrenheit -- the planet is warming and what the trend portends , but meanwhile Earth 's plants , insects and animals are not waiting for the outcome . They already are altering their patterns of behavior in response to what is happening . It turns out one of the surest barometers of the warming climate is the response of the non-human natural world to changing conditions , and biologists who study the responses have been aware for some years the biosphere is acknowledging global warming . Nina Leopold Bradley , a plant ecologist and daughter of the conservation pioneer Aldo Leopold , published a 1999 paper in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences on her 61 - year uninterrupted phenological records . Phenology studies an organism 's development and life cycle -- the pulse of life . Bradley 's record of 300 phenophases found that even prior to 1999 , spring was arriving in higher latitudes several weeks earlier than in the earlier years of her data . Birds arrived sooner on their migrations from the south and plants flowered earlier . The Eastern phoebe is showing up about 20 days before it used to . The forest phlox is blooming in late April instead of mid-May . Half of the 300 phenophases Leopold tracked showed a response consistent with warming . In England , the cuckoo returns earlier . An analysis of 65 bird species in the United Kingdom shows about one - third are laying their eggs four to seven days earlier than they did 25 years ago . " One of the major , most well - documented and robust findings in ecology over the past century has been the crucial role of climate in determining the geographical distribution of species and ecological communities , " concluded a report titled " Observed Impacts of Global Climate Change in the United States , " released by the Pew Center on Global Climate last week . Pew researchers looked at about 40 studies that could provide an assessment of whether climate was affecting biology . " Half of the studies provide strong evidence of a causal link between the biological change and climate change , " said Camille Parmesan , a University of Texas - Austin biologist and one of the world 's leading experts on this issue . These changes are occurring across all species , Parmesan told UPI 's Climate . " Across the United States , the northern edge of species ' range is expanding , " she said . Parmesan has spent much of her career studying the checkerspot butterfly , which migrates between Mexico and southern California . Some localized extinctions already have occurred across some of its habitat . " Empirical research pointed to climate as being a strong driver , " she said . " There have been large numbers of population extinctions in Mexico and southern California in areas where the habitat is still acceptable . " According to Parmesan 's earlier studies , one extinction event , for instance , was triggered when a checkerspot population migrated north prematurely , relying on a warming temperature signal , then was caught in a severe snowstorm in its northern habitat . Throughout the United States , she said , " spring is about two weeks earlier . Tree swallows are nesting nine days earlier . Tropical species have moved up to Florida and the Gulf Coast . Bird and butterfly watchers are seeing many , many new species coming up from Mexico and the Caribbean . " As the Pew report concluded , " Sufficient studies now exist to conclude that the consequences of climate change are already detectable within U.S. ecosystems . " Such consequences include shifting and , in some cases , contraction of ranges and changes in species composition within ecosystems . The report also found alterations of ecosystem processes such as carbon cycling and storage . The Alaskan tundra , for instance , has switched from being a net sink of carbon dioxide -- absorbing and storing more carbon from the atmosphere than it releases -- to " being a net source of CO2 ( releasing more carbon than is stored ) because warmer winters have allowed dead plant matter previously stored in the soil to decompose and release CO2 . " The Pew report coincided with the release in Iceland of the " Arctic Climate Impact Assessment . " The ACIA -- with participation by the United States , Canada , Denmark , Finland , Iceland , Norway , the Russian Federation and Sweden -- was begun in 2000 . " The impacts of global warming are affecting people now in the Arctic , " said ACIA chair Robert Corell . " The Arctic is experiencing some of the most rapid and severe climate change on Earth . The impacts of climate change on the region and the globe are projected to increase substantially in the years to come . " The ACIA 